HOLDREGE, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2420
   ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE of the CITY of HOLDREGE, PHELPS
COUNTY, NEBRASKA
An ordinance of the City of Holdrege, Nebraska, codifying the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing all prior ordinances in conflict
herewith and designating the time when this ordinance shall be in effect.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLDREGE, NEBRASKA.
Section 1.   Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of
Holdrege, Nebraska, are hereby codified into eleven chapters and the articles
and sections hereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of this
City.
Section 2.   Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed;
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
4.   Ordinances granting a franchise, or special license to persons, firms or
corporations.
5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
7.   Real Estate Transactions.
8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
Section 3.   Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2 of
Ordinance 2420 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred there under, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof prior to repeal. Such
ordinances above repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the
passage, approval and publication of this general codification ordinance for
the purpose of all rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and
actions therefore.
Section 4.   Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters, articles,
and sections as set forth herein shall be and are hereby declared to be the
chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance. All
ordinances passed hereafter by the local Governing Body shall be numbered
consecutively beginning with No. 2421.
Section 5.   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court or competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
Section 6.   Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one thousand
($1,000.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the City may be prosecuted and punished as
though he were the principal offender.
Section 7.   General Definitions.
1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include natural
persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations of whatever character.
2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender may
apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing the
plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All words
importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural number.
3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter. Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No.2420. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product at
wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell the
said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to consumers.
5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality whenever
used in this code shall mean the City of Holdrege, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
6.    Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Elected Official of the City
whenever it appears in this Code.
8.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
City whenever it appears in this Code.
Section 8.   Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
Section 9.   Construction of Chapters. Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience under
the General Codification Ordinance No. 2420 each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Mayor and Council of the City of
Holdrege and included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be
altered, amended, or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of
such ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the
substitution of a new ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection
containing the entire ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as
amended, altered, or revised.
Section 10.   Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Mayor and Council of the City of Holdrege, and shall
be distributed as they may see fit. (Ref. 17-613,17-614 RS Neb.)
Section 11.   When Operative. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force
fifteen (15) days after its final passage and approval, and shall be published
within such period.
PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 19™ DAY OF FEBRUARY 2019
                                 Doug A. Young /s/
                                 Doug A. Young, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
Dane C. Jensen /s/
Dane C. Jensen, City Clerk
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
3.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
4.   BONDS AND OATH
      
5.   CORPORATE SEAL
      
6.   MEETINGS
      
7.   ORDINANCES
      
8.   ELECTIONS
      
9.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
10.   EMINENT DOMAIN
      
11.   COMPENSATION
      
12.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   Corporate existence
   
1-102   Service of process
   
1-103   Powers
   
1-104   Codification of ordinances
§ 1-101 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The city is hereby found and declared to be a city of more than 5,000
persons. The municipality shall be governed by the laws of the state regulating
cities of the first class.
(2005 Code, § 1-101)
§ 1-102 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   All processes affecting the municipality shall be served upon the Mayor or
Acting Mayor or, in the absence of both officials, upon the Municipal Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 1-102)
§ 1-103 POWERS.
   The municipality is a body corporate and politic. It shall have the power to
sue and be sued; to purchase, lease and lease with option to buy; to acquire
property by gift or devise; to hold real and personal property within or
without the limits of the municipality and real estate sold to satisfy unpaid
tax obligations for the use of the municipality in such manner and upon such
terms and conditions as may be deemed in the best interests of the
municipality; to sell, exchange or lease any personal or real property owned by
the municipality, including park land, in such manner and upon such terms and
conditions as may be deemed in the best interests of the municipality; provided
that, real estate owned by the municipality may be conveyed without
consideration to the state or to the state’s Armory Board for state armory
sites or, if acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed in the manner
strictly as provided in Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006; to make all contracts
and do all other acts in relation to the concerns of the municipality as may be
necessary in the exercise of its corporate powers; and to exercise such other
and further powers as may be conferred by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-103)
§ 1-104 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The municipality shall have the power to revise the ordinances of the
municipality from time to time and publish the same in book form. The revision
shall be evidenced by a general codification ordinance, which shall repeal all
other ordinances in conflict and embrace as the governing law of the
municipality all provisions therein. All ordinances in force at the time of the
codification shall continue in force for the purpose of all rights acquired,
fines, penalties, forfeitures and liabilities incurred.
(2005 Code, § 1-104)
ARTICLE 2: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-201   Qualifications
   
1-202   Vacancies
   
1-203   Enumerated
   
1-204   Mayor
   
1-205   Qualifications and prohibitions
   
1-206   City Council; Acting President; selection and duties; organization
§ 1-201 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All elected officers shall be qualified electors of the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 1-201)
§ 1-202 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the municipality,
except Mayor, notice of said vacancy shall be presented in writing to the City
Council at a regular meeting and said notice shall appear as a part of the
minutes of such meeting.
   (B)   The City Council shall, at once, give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality or by posting in three public places in the municipality the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, within two weeks after the regular meeting at which
such notice has been presented or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the City Council, at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term. Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council, the
vacancy shall be filled. If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination
shall be rejected and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the
name of another qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by
majority vote, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of
qualified electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such
nominations until the vacancy is filled.
   (D)   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (E)   When there is a vacancy in the office of the Mayor, the President of
the Council shall serve as Mayor for the unexpired term; except that, if a
least one-half of the previous Mayor’s term remains and a general election is
to be held more than 60 days from the date of vacancy, a successor shall be
elected at the next general election for the balance of the previous Mayor’s
unexpired term.
(2005 Code, § 1-202)
§ 1-203 ENUMERATED.
   The electors of the municipality shall elect a Mayor at large and two City
Council members from each ward. Council members shall be electors of the
municipality and residents of the ward from which they were elected. Terms of
all elected officials shall commence on the first regular meeting in December
of each election year.
(2005 Code, § 1-203)
§ 1-204 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected to serve a four-year term of office.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside at all the meetings of the City Council and
may vote when his or her vote shall be decisive and the City Council is equally
divided on any pending matter, legislation or transaction and the Mayor shall,
for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. He or
she shall have the superintending control of all the officers and affairs of
the municipality and shall take care that the state and municipal law are
complied with. He or she may administer oaths and shall sign the commissions
and appointments of all the officers appointed in the municipality. The Mayor
shall have the power to approve or veto any ordinance passed by the City
Council, and to approve or veto any order, by-law, resolution, award of or veto
to enter into any contract or the allowance of any claim; provided that, any
ordinance, order, by-law, resolution, award or vote to enter into any contract,
or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor, may be passed over his or
her veto by a vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to the City
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, by-law,
resolution, award or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any
claim, and returns the same with his or her objection in writing at the next
regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become law without his or her
signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill and
approve the remainder thereof. The item or items so vetoed may be passed by the
Council over his or her veto as in other cases. The Mayor shall communicate to
the Council such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her
opinion, may tend to improve the municipality, and may have such jurisdiction
as may be vested in him or her by ordinance over all places within two miles of
the corporate limits of the municipality for the enforcement of health or
quarantine laws and the regulation thereof. The Mayor shall have the power,
after the conviction of any person, to remit fines and forfeitures and to grant
reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the laws of the
municipality.
   (C)   In the event that there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor or, in the
event the Mayor is absent or unable to fulfill the duties and obligations of
his or her office, the President of the Council shall exercise the powers and
duties of the office until the vacancy shall be filled, such disability is
removed or, in the case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(2005 Code, § 1-204)
§ 1-205 QUALIFICATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   Elected officials shall be residents and qualified electors of the city.
Except as an officer of a public power district, public power and irrigation
district or public utility company, elected officials shall hold no other
elective municipal office, any county office, nor any other office or
employment of the municipality. The acceptance of any county office by any
elected municipal official shall be a vacation of the municipal office so held
prior to such acceptance. Further, except as provided in §
1-305 of this chapter, such elected officials shall not be interested in the
profits or emoluments of any contract, job, work or service for the city.
(2005 Code, § 1-205)
§ 1-206 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT; SELECTION AND DUTIES; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall
be styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings
of the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor,
and the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own
body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting
President of the Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have
the same privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of
the President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so
acting, shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as
if done by the elected Mayor.
(2005 Code, § 1-206)
   (B)   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-
year term. One Council member from each ward shall be elected at each election,
so that terms are staggered. The City Council shall be the legislative division
of the municipal government and shall perform such duties, and have such
powers, as may be authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace,
regulate business, protect the public health and safety, assess such taxes and
fees as are necessary and appropriate funds in the exercise of these functions.
(2005 Code, § 1-207)
   (C)   City Council members of the municipality shall take office and
commence their duties on the first regular meeting date in December following
their elections. The newly elected Council members who have qualified as
prescribed by law together with the members of the City Council holding over,
shall assemble in a regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter,
prescribed and perfect the reorganization of the City Council as herein
provided, and all appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are
expired shall be filled by appointment. After the said meeting has been called
to order, the Municipal Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all
City Council members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and
this report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll
call. Each ward of the municipality shall be represented by two Council
members. No person shall be eligible who is not, at the time of his or her
election, an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and
should any City Council member move from the ward from which he or she was
elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(2005 Code, § 1-208)
ARTICLE 3: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-301   Enumerated
   
1-302   Vacancy
   
1-303   Term of office
   
1-304   Creation of office
   
1-305   Duties prescribed
   
1-306   Reports
   
1-307   Delegation of power
   
1-308   Merger of offices
   
1-309   City Administrator
   
1-310   City Attorney
   
1-311   City Treasurer; books
   
1-312   City Clerk
   
1-313   City Engineer
   
1-314   Special Engineer
   
1-315   City Physician
   
1-316   Chief of Police
   
1-317   Building Inspector
   
1-318   Superintendent of Utilities
   
1-319   Fire Chief
   
1-320   Municipal Services Director
§ 1-301 ENUMERATED.
   (A)   The Mayor may, by and with the advice and consent of a three-fourths
majority of the City Council, appoint an Administrator, Treasurer, Clerk,
Engineer, Attorney, Physician, Municipal Services Director, Superintendent of
Utilities, Building Inspector, Chief of the Fire Department (confirmation
only), Chief of Police and such regular police as the governing body shall see
fit.
   (B)   All appointed officers may be removed at any time by the Mayor with
the approval of three- fourths of the Council.
   (C)   All confirmations of appointments to such offices by the Council shall
be made viva voce and the concurrence of a majority shall be required.
   (D)   The vote by “yeas” and “nays” shall be recorded.
(2005 Code, § 1-301)
§ 1-302 VACANCY.
   Whenever any vacancy shall occur in an appointive office for any reason,
including removal of the said official for not attending a meeting the official
was required to attend or an absence from the municipality for a prolonged
period of time, either of which being without the Mayor’s consent, the Mayor
shall fill the office in the manner prescribed for the appointment of new
appointed officials for the unexpired term.
(2005 Code, § 1-302)
§ 1-303 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All officers appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall hold
the office to which they may be appointed until the end of the Mayor’s term of
office and until their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed, or the ordinance creating the office shall be repealed.
(2005 Code, § 1-303)
§ 1-304 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The governing body may create any office that it may deem necessary for the
good government and interest of the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 1-304)
§ 1-305 DUTIES PRESCRIBED.
   The governing body may regulate and prescribe by ordinance the powers,
duties and compensation of the officers of the municipality not specifically
delineated by state law. The governing body may classify the several offices
and positions of trust or employment in the public service on the basis of
merit through such agency as the governing body shall provide for that purpose.
(2005 Code, § 1-305)
§ 1-306 REPORTS.
   The governing body may require from any office of the municipality at any
time a report in detail of the transactions of his or her office or of any
matters connected therewith.
(2005 Code, § 1-306)
§ 1-307 DELEGATION OF POWER.
   Any power conferred upon an appointed official by the governing body or by
statute may be delegated by such official. Any action taken by a designee under
such delegation shall have the same force and effect as if it had been
performed by the delegating appointed official.
(2005 Code, § 1-307)
§ 1-308 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may, by ordinance, combine elective and appointive
offices, except Mayor and Council members, where permitted by law, so that one
or more offices may be held by the same officer at the same time; provided
that, the offices shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of
the merger shall be limited to combination of official duties only; and,
provided further, the salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall
not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the
offices so combined.
(2005 Code, § 1-308)
§ 1-309 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of City Administrator. The City
Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. He or
she shall be liable in his or her official bond as may be fixed from time to
time by resolution of the Council for the faithful performance of his or her
duties. He or she shall receive such salary, payable in equal biweekly
installments out of the General Fund, as may be fixed by resolution of the City
Council. He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor with concurrence of a
majority of members elected to the Council. He or she may be removed by the
Mayor with the same concurring Council majority, or he or she may be removed by
a three-fourths majority of the members elected to the Council without the
Mayor’s concurrence.
   (B)   The duties of the City Administrator shall be as are provided in this
code. He or she may be ex officio Municipal Clerk and Utilities Bookkeeper and
Collector. He or she shall be the senior appointed official of the city and his
or her general responsibilities shall include planning, organizing and
controlling all activities in all departments of the city and the city’s
utility system on behalf and under the general supervision of the Mayor and
Council. He or she shall provide administrative support to the Mayor and
Council and administrative supervision to all departments of the city. He or
she shall coordinate and supervise all city interdepartmental activities.
Although he or she may delegate duties therein to supporting staff, the City
Administrator is specifically responsible to the Mayor and Council for the
following activities.
      (1)   He or she shall assure proper implementation of the ordinances,
resolutions and actions passed and approved by the Mayor and Council.
      (2)   He or she shall assure proper implementation, administration and
interpretation of the city’s personnel plan as established by the Mayor and
Council.
      (3)   He or she shall review the employee evaluations of performance as
submitted by department supervisors and attach his or her concurring or
dissenting endorsement.
      (4)   He or she shall prepare evaluations of performance for the various
department supervisors for review and endorsement by the Mayor and Council.
      (5)   He or she shall assure that proper procedures are followed in the
recruitment, hiring, assignment, promotion, disciplining and discharging of the
city and utility system personnel.
      (6)   He or she shall assure proper management of personnel records.
      (7)   He or she shall assure proper administration of purchasing policies
as established by the Mayor and Council.
      (8)   He or she shall assure proper preparation of specifications and bid
solicitations for the purchase of special equipment by the city and utility
system.
      (9)   He or she shall authorize and execute the city’s purchase orders as
the municipal purchasing agent.
      (10)   He or she shall assure proper accounting for the receiving of
goods ordered, invoices received and payment thereof.
      (11)   He or she shall assure proper management of purchasing records.
      (12)   He or she shall authorize and approve all news releases,
advertisements and promotional campaigns on behalf and with the concurrence of
the Mayor and Council.
      (13)   He or she shall coordinate staff activities with other municipal,
county, state or federal offices, departments and agencies in multi-
governmental cooperative efforts or for legal or regulatory compliance.
      (14)   He or she shall, to the extent possible, assure that staff
cooperation and assistance is provided to individuals and organizations in the
community in the promotion and perpetuation of an acceptable standard of living
in the community.
      (15)   He or she shall assure the proper staff processing of all
complaints.
      (16)   He or she shall act as administrative liaison and provide
administrative support in the foregoing areas as requested by:
         (a)   The city’s Airport Authority;
         (b)   The city’s Housing Authority;
         (c)   The city’s Public Library;
         (d)   The city’s Planning Commission; and
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment.
      (17)   He or she shall perform such special duties as may be assigned to
him or her from time to time by the Mayor and Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-309)
§ 1-310 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Council and city
officers. The City Attorney shall be subject to the orders of the governing
body by resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The City Attorney shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits
and actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the
city, or that may be ordered by the Council. He or she shall attend meetings of
the Council and give it his or her opinion upon any matter submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing as may be required. He or she shall draw all
ordinances, contracts and other documents requested by the Mayor and Council.
The Mayor and City Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney
additional compensation for legal services performed by him or her for the city
or to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal assistance
out of the funds of the city.
(2005 Code, § 1-310)
§ 1-311 CITY TREASURER; BOOKS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be subject to the orders of the governing
body by resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The person serving as City Treasurer shall have the following
powers and duties.
      (1)   He or she shall be custodian of all money belonging to the city;
and he or she shall keep a separate account of every fund or appropriation and
the debits and credits belonging to the city.
      (2)   He or she shall give every person paying money into the treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and on what account paid, and
also file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports made to the
Mayor and City Council.
      (3)   He or she shall, as often as may be required, render an account to
the City Council showing, under oath, the condition of the various accounts of
the treasury at the time and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall accompany such reports with a statement of all receipts and disbursements
together with all warrants paid by him or her, which warrants with any vouchers
held by him or her shall be filed with his or her accounts in the Clerk’s
office. He or she shall produce and show all funds shown by such report to be
on hand, or notify the Council or its committee that he or she has such funds
in his or her custody or his or her control.
      (4)   He or she shall produce and keep a warrant register, which shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, date and the amount of
each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund, upon which the same
is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in whose
name the same is registered, the date of payment, the amount of interest in the
total amount paid thereon, with the date when the notice to such person is
whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer upon presentation of any
warrant for payment, in the presence of such person to enter such warrant in
his or her warrant register for payment in order of its presentation and, upon
every warrant as presented and registered, he or she shall endorse, “Registered
for Payment”, with the date of such registration and registered number; and he
or she shall sign such endorsement, whereupon such warrant shall be legal under
that statutes of the state and the date of registration until notice of payment
shall be given to the holder thereof as provided by law.
      (6)   He or she shall publish or cause to be published in some legal
newspaper of the city and of general circulation on or before March 1 of each
year, a report of the doings of his or her office, which report shall show in
detail receipts, disbursements, warrants outstanding and balance of debit or
credit as the case may be, the expenses of such publication to be paid out of
the General Fund of the city.
      (7)   The Treasurer may employ and appoint a delinquent tax collector,
who shall be allowed a percent upon his or her collections to be fixed by the
Council not to exceed the fees allowed by law to the County Treasurer for like
services, and upon taxes collected by such delinquent tax collector, the City
Treasurer shall receive no fees.
      (8)   The City Treasurer shall prepare all paving and curbing tax lists
and shall collect all paving and curbing taxes.
      (9)   He or she shall act as bookkeeper and collector for the systems of
sewerage, of electric light and water and any other public service owned and
operated by the city.
         (a)   He or she shall keep a full and correct account with each
consumer of city service of the city, and shall issue duplicate receipts for
all money collected from each consumer, one of which shall be given to the
person from whom the money is collected and the other shall be retained by the
Treasurer in his or her office. The books and papers kept by such officer with
respect to the water and light systems and of any other public service of the
city shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of the Mayor and City
Council.
         (b)   He or she shall make to the Mayor and City Council at each
regular monthly meeting a detailed report of the names of all consumers of
light and water and other service who are on the delinquent list and whose
service has been disconnected or is subject to be disconnected for non-payment
of rents and charges.
         (c)   He or she shall collect all money receivable by the city on
account of such public utilities and shall faithfully account therefor.
         (d)   He or she shall give bond in such sum as the Mayor and City
Council shall, by resolution, from time to time fix and shall perform such
other duties as may be ordered or directed from time to time by the Mayor and
City Council.
      (10)   If he or she shall neglect or fail for the space of ten days from
the end of each month to render his or her account, his or her office shall be
declared vacant and the City Council shall fill such vacancy by appointment
until the next city election.
(2005 Code, § 1-311)
   (B)   The Treasurer shall daily, as moneys are received, foot the several
columns of his or her cashbook and of his or her register, and carry the
amounts forward and, at the close of each year, in case the amount of money
received by the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or
she shall close the account for that year in such register and shall carry
forward the excess. Any Treasurer who shall fail regularly to enter upon his or
her cashbook the amounts so received and receipted for, or who shall fail to
keep his or her cashbook footed from day to day, for the space of three days,
shall forfeit for each offense the sum of $100, to be recovered in a civil
action on his or her official bond by any person holding a warrant drawn on
such Treasurer, one-half to the person bringing such action and one-half to the
School Fund of the county. The cashbook, register and retained receipts of the
Treasurer shall, at all times, be open to the inspection of any person in whose
name any warrants are registered and unpaid.
(2005 Code, § 1-312)
§ 1-312 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be subject to the orders of the governing body by
resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   The person serving as City Clerk shall have the following duties and
powers.
      (1)   He or she shall attend every meeting of the City Council and keep a
record of the proceedings thereof.
      (2)   Whenever required by the Mayor or requested by four members of the
City Council, he or she shall issue to the Chief of Police a notice to be
delivered to the members of the City Council of any special meeting thereof and
shall notify any city officers and committees of the Council of the business
entrusted to them.
      (3)   He or she shall keep and carefully preserve all papers and books
which may come into his or her possession as Clerk, filing and arranging them
in a manner convenient for reference.
      (4)   He or she shall keep a record of all bonds outstanding against the
city, showing the number and amount of each, and to whom such bonds were
issued, and when any bonds are purchased, paid or canceled, such records shall
show the fact. In his or her annual report, he or she shall describe
particularly the bonds issued and sold during the past year and the terms of
the sale with each item of expense thereof.
      (5)   He or she shall make, at the end of each month, a report showing
the amount appropriated to each fund and the whole amount of warrants drawn
thereon.
      (6)   He or she shall keep the seal of the city and shall duly attest
thereby the Mayor’s signature to all ordinances and all deeds and papers
required to be attested, when ordered by the Mayor and City Council, and all
orders for money or warrants for the payment of money and shall enter the same
in numerical order in a book to be kept for that purpose.
      (7)   He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the city
for the purpose for which they were issued, and report to the City Council at
every meeting and, at the beginning of each month, shall, if required by the
Police Department, furnish them a true copy of the register of all licenses
then in force.
      (8)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the City Council, he or she
shall prepare and publish the proceedings of the City Council in a legal
newspaper published and of general circulation in the county; provided that,
the charge for such publication shall not exceed one-third of the legal rate.
Such publication charge shall be paid and allowed as other claims against the
General Fund.
      (9)   He or she shall, in January of each year, and at such other times
when request shall be made, receive applications for licenses to sell cigars,
tobacco, cigarettes and cigarette materials.
      (10)   He or she shall keep and preserve the proceedings for the Mayor
and City Council in four separate and distinct record books as follows:
         (a)   “Minute Record”, wherein shall be recorded the miscellaneous and
informal doings of the Mayor and City Council;
         (b)   “Ordinance Record”, wherein shall be recorded the formal
proceedings of the Mayor and City Council in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing or posting and certifying to ordinances. Such ordinance minutes
shall be recorded and spread at large in the “Ordinance Record” book or printed
forms. In all cases where single ordinances are introduced for the
consideration for the Mayor and City Council, the City Clerk shall cause to be
introduced by the introducer of such ordinance an appropriate resolution
incorporating by reference and “Ordinance Record” into the “Minute Record”. The
“Minute Record” shall hereafter contain no proceeding relative to the passage
and approval of ordinances, save and except such resolution aforesaid;
         (c)   “Resolution Record”, containing all resolutions passed by the
Mayor and City Council; and
         (d)   “Policy Record” of policies adopted by the Mayor and City
Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-313)
§ 1-313 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall be subject to the orders of the governing body by
resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The City Engineer shall, when requested by the governing body,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the municipality, and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings. He or she shall perform such additional
duties as the governing body may require. It shall be his or her duty to make a
record of the minutes of his or her surveys and of all work done for the
municipality and accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 1-314)
§ 1-314 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may, whenever it deems it expedient, employ a Special
Engineer to make or assist in making any particular estimate or survey. Any
such estimate or survey shall have the same validity and serve in all respects
as though the same had been made by the City Engineer.
(2005 Code, § 1-315)
§ 1-315 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   The City Physician shall be subject to the orders of the governing body by
resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The City Physician shall be a physician who resides permanently
in the city. He or she shall be a member of the Board of Health of the city and
shall be its medical adviser. When requested by the Mayor or City Attorney, he
or she shall investigate all cases of injury to persons in which liability
against the city may be asserted and make a written report thereof, including
the circumstances causing the injury and the nature and extent of the injury.
He or she shall perform such other duties of a medical and healthful nature as
shall be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Mayor and Council. The
City Physician shall receive as compensation for his or her services an amount
set by ordinance of the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-316)
§ 1-316 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be subject to the orders of the governing body by
resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The Chief of Police shall have the immediate superintendence of
the police. He or she and the police officers shall have the power, and it
shall be their duty, to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state or
of the city, by day or by night, in the same manner as a sheriff or constable,
and keep them in the city prison or other place to prevent their escape, until
a trial or examination may be had before the proper officer; and they shall
have the same power as a sheriff and constable in relation to all criminal
matters arising out of a violation of a municipal law and all process issued by
the County Court in connection with a violation of a municipal law. They shall
arrest and detain any person found violating any law of the state or any law of
the city, until a legal warrant can be obtained. Each member of the city’s
Police Department shall have the duties of becoming well informed as to the
laws of the state and laws of the city, of enforcing such laws, of wearing at
all times the badge, uniform and insignia furnished by the city for the police
and of properly caring for same, and such further duties as shall be assigned
to them by the Mayor and Council and as are otherwise provided by law. The
Chief of Police shall have custody of all municipal property used by the city
police; shall execute the orders of the Mayor; shall be a member of the Board
of Health and the Secretary and quarantine officer thereof; shall have charge
of traffic control on the city streets; shall make and file or cause to be made
and filed complaints for violations of the ordinances of the city; shall have
charge of the city jail and the prisoners therein; and shall perform such other
duties as are assigned to or required of him or her by the Mayor and Council or
otherwise provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-317)
§ 1-317 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall be subject to the orders of the governing body
by resolution and under the immediate supervision of the city’s Services
Director. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
all the provisions of the municipal code pertaining to building construction
and repair. For such purpose, he or she shall have the powers of the municipal
police. In accordance with his or her duties, and upon presentation of proper
credentials, the Building Inspector, or his or her duly authorized
representative, may enter, at all reasonable times, any building, structure or
premises to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by any Building Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code or Gas Code duly adopted by reference in the
municipal code, or any provision of the municipal code. Whenever any building
or construction work is being done contrary to the provisions of said codes, it
shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to order the work stopped by notice
in writing served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be
done. Any such person shall immediately stop, or cause to be stopped, said work
until authorization is received from the Building Inspector to continue the
work. When any structure is in a dangerous condition or the building is being
used contrary to the provisions of the laws of the municipality, the Building
Inspector may order such use discontinued or the structure, or portion thereof
in violation vacated. The Building Inspector, acting in good faith and without
malice in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself
or herself personally liable and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act
or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought against the
Building Inspector, because of an alleged act or omission performed by him or
her in the enforcement of any provision of the municipal codes relating to
buildings or building construction shall be defended by the Legal Department of
the municipality until final termination of the proceedings. The Building
Inspector may request, and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the
discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation of other
officials of the municipality. The Inspector shall have such additional duties
and make such reports as the governing body may prescribe from time to time.
(2005 Code, § 1-318)
§ 1-318 SUPERINTENDENT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Superintendent of Utilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall serve during the pleasure of the
Mayor and City Council. The Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the
orders of the governing body by resolution and shall be under the immediate
supervision of the City Administrator. He or she shall be liable on his or her
official bond as fixed in this chapter for the faithful performance of his or
her duties. He or she shall receive such salary, payable in equal semimonthly
installments out of the Light Fund Maintenance, as may be fixed by resolution
of the City Council, and he or she may be removed at any time by a three-
fourths vote of the members of the City Council.
   (C)   The duties of the Superintendent of Utilities shall be such as are
provided in this code. He or she may be ex officio City Engineer, Light
Commissioner, Water Commissioner, Sewer Commissioner, Plumbing Inspector and
Electrical Inspector.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall have charge of the utilities
provided for in this code.
   (E)   He or she shall have supervision over the operators of all utilities
provided for in this code, their assistants and employees, who shall obey his
or her orders.
   (F)   In the exercise of those functions, the Superintendent of Utilities
shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   He or she shall turn over to the City Treasurer forthwith all money
coming into his or her hands by virtue of his or her office and shall take the
City Treasurer’s receipt in duplicate therefor, one of which shall be filed in
the records of the office of the Superintendent of Utilities.
      (2)   He or she shall cause to be read all meters as provided in
Ch. 3 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   He or she shall have authority to purchase material, employ labor
and otherwise make any expenditures and create such obligations as are
necessary and incidental to the efficient operation of the water, sewer and
lighting system subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council, except
as to such repairs as are necessary in cases of emergency, when such approval
shall not be required.
      (4)   The account of each patron of the water and lighting system shall
be separately kept by the City Treasurer and all money paid on account in
connection with the operation of the light system shall be receipted for by the
employee or officer receiving such payment and a duplicate of such receipt
shall be kept on file in the office of the Superintendent of Utilities.
      (5)   Upon request therefor, he or she shall deliver to the Mayor and
City Council the books of his or her office containing original entries and all
other books for the inspection of such body.
      (6)   He or she shall, at the last regular meeting of the Mayor and City
Council in April of each year, submit an estimate of the whole cost of
providing for and maintaining the Light, Water and Sewer Department for the
next municipal year. Such estimate shall be in detail and shall contain a list
of the kind and amount of supplies that will probably be needed for the ensuing
year.
      (7)   He or she shall perform such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may, from time to time by resolution, prescribe.
(2005 Code, § 1-319)
§ 1-319 FIRE CHIEF.
   The members of the Fire Department shall, at the time of each annual meeting
of the Department, recommend some person for the office of Chief of the Fire
Department, who, upon being confirmed by the Mayor and Council, shall hold
office until his or her successor shall be appointed and qualified. The Chief
of the Fire Department shall be subject to removal by the Mayor at any time.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall be subject to the orders of the
governing body by resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of
the City Administrator. The Fire Chief shall, on or before the last Tuesday in
April of each year, furnish or cause the Secretary to furnish the Municipal
Clerk a copy of the roster of the members of the Fire Department in good
standing and from month to month thereafter, he or she shall report any
proposed additions or changes in the roster for proper action by the Council so
that all members of the Fire Department shall be at all times covered by
insurance or by such other lawful protections and benefits as may be provided
under state or municipal law. The Chief of the Fire Department shall have under
his or her control the property, implements and apparatus used by the Fire
Department subject to the general and specific directives of the governing
body. He or she shall use all proper means for the extinguishment of fires, the
protection of property, the preservation of order and the enforcement of all
laws relating to fires and fire protection which governs the municipality.
During the time of fire or great public danger, he or she shall have and
exercise the powers and duties of the Chief of Police. Upon the written consent
and directive of the governing body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement or maintenance of the property of the Fire Department and shall
personally supervise and approve of the same. No obligation, except in an
emergency or when the expenditure is of a minor nature, shall be incurred on
behalf of the Fire Department by the Fire Chief unless the obligation was
previously authorized in writing by the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 1-320)
§ 1-320 MUNICIPAL SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Municipal Services Director. The
Municipal Services Director shall be subject to the orders of the governing
body by resolution and shall be under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Such official shall report to the City Administrator and shall have
the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   Provide administrative and operational supervision to the positions
of Foreperson-Streets and Sanitation and Foreperson-Parks and Recreation, and
assign the day to day duties of said positions and report any deficiencies
thereof;
      (2)   Provide direct supervision to the building maintenance and building
system operation employees assigned to the Municipal Building and the City
Auditorium;
      (3)   Gather the necessary information and assist in the preparation of
the annual budgets for the departments assigned to him or her;
      (4)   Provide supervisory control over expenditures within the
departments assigned to him or her assuring that said expenditures are approved
in the current annual budget and assuring approval and reporting of non-
budgeted purchases requested;
      (5)   Act as Zoning Administrator and Planning Coordinator for the city
providing administrative liaison between the Council and the Planning
Commission and the Board of Adjustment;
      (6)   Act as or supervise the activities of the Municipal Building
Inspector, as described in §
1-319 of this article in the enforcement of all building and housing
regulations of the municipality; and
      (7)   Perform such special duties as may be assigned to him or her from
time to time by the Administrator or Mayor.
(2005 Code, § 1-321)
ARTICLE 4: BONDS AND OATH
Section
   
1-401   Bond; official bonds; required
   
1-402   Oath; municipal officials
   
1-403   Officials; property; conflict of interest; charges against
§ 1-401 BOND; OFFICIAL BONDS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following officers shall each give bond for their respective
offices, with good and sufficient personal sureties, or a surety bond to be
approved by the Mayor and City Council, in sums as follows or the statutory
requirement if higher:
      (1)   City Treasurer and City Clerk: $75,000. The Mayor and City Council,
by resolution if they deem it advisable, may require the Treasurer to give
additional bond equal to or double the amount of money passing through his or
her hands;
      (2)   Superintendent of Utilities: $5,000; and
      (3)   Chief of Police, night watch and other regular police officers:
$1,000. The Mayor and City Council may require a bond from any other officer
conditioned in such sum as they may, by resolution, designate.
(2005 Code, § 1-401)
   (B)   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and
several, and shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the
governing body may set by resolution which sums shall be on file at the office
of the Municipal Clerk; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each
particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall be
executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided, no
municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license
bond or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship
on the bond of an official of the municipality. All said bonds shall obligate
the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required
by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the municipality
and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds.
No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the
governing board, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the said
instrument by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval of
the governing body. The premium on any official bond required to be given may
be paid out of the General Fund, or other proper Municipal fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the governing body at the beginning of any
municipal year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk for his or her official records and it shall be
the duty of the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so
filed upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the
governing body. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any
officer of the municipality, in the opinion of the governing body, become
insufficient, the governing body may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time
within which the said officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as
directed. In the event that the officer should fail, refuse or neglect to give
a new bond, or additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the
governing body, then the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect
become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the governing body to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office. Any official who is re-
elected to office shall be required to file a new bond after each election.
(2005 Code, § 1-402)
§ 1-402 OATH; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I,                                                        , do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Nebraska against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this
obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or for the purpose of
evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the
office of                                                        according to
law, and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I do not
advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence. So help me God.”
(2005 Code, § 1-403)
§ 1-403 OFFICIALS; PROPERTY; CONFLICT OF INTEREST; CHARGES AGAINST.
   (A)   Every officer and employee of the city or of any of its boards or
departments shall promptly and fully account for and deliver to his or her
successor, or as otherwise directed by the Mayor and Council, all money,
equipment and other property of the city which he or she has in his or her
possession or has received from the city during his or her term of office or
employment.
(2005 Code, § 1-404)
   (B)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the municipality is a party when the consideration of the
said contract is in an amount in excess of $20,000 in any one year, and no
contract may be divided for the purpose of evading the requirements of this
section. Any such interest in a contract shall void any obligation on the part
of the municipality; provided, the receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and
buying and selling of the warrants and bonds of the municipality shall not be
considered a contract under the provisions of this section. No official shall
receive any pay or compensation from the municipality other than his or her
salary. The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality; provided that, ownership of less than 1% of
the outstanding stock of any class in a corporation shall not constitute an
interest within the meaning of this section.
(2005 Code, § 1-405)
   (C)   Any person may make a charge of misconduct in office against any city
official, which charge shall be in writing and under oath and shall specify the
nature of the misconduct claimed, which charge shall be filed with the City
Clerk. Such charge shall be fully read at the next regular meeting of the City
Council or at a special meeting called for that purpose and, if so ordered by
the Council, a copy of such charge, certified by the City Clerk, shall be
served upon the officer charged, together with a notice that he or she shall
show cause, at a meeting of the Council, why he or she should not be removed
from office.
(2005 Code, § 1-406)
ARTICLE 5: CORPORATE SEAL
Section
   
1-501   Seal; official corporate
§ 1-501 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal, City
of Holdrege, Phelps County, Nebraska”. The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the governing body
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 1-501)
ARTICLE 6: MEETINGS
Section
   
1-601   Definitions
   
1-602   Public meetings
   
1-603   Closed sessions
   
1-604   Emergency meetings
   
1-605   Meeting minutes
   
1-606   Votes
   
1-607   Notice to news media
   
1-608   Public participation
   
1-609   Governing body
   
1-610   Parliamentary procedure
   
1-611   Change in office
   
1-612   Organizational
§ 1-601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings of a public body for the
purposes of briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative
policy or the taking of any formal action.
(2005 Code, § 1-601)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   The following:
         (a)   The governing body of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
such subcommittees have been given authority to take formal action on behalf of
their parent body.
(2005 Code, § 1-602)
§ 1-602 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by the
governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. The
governing body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an
emergency nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the Municipal
Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time by which the
advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an
agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place
of the meetings and the names of each member of the governing body present or
absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the governing body shall be a
public record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable
time at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any official action on any question
or motion duly moved and seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the
governing body in open session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show
how each member voted or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(2005 Code, § 1-603)
§ 1-603 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a closed session
shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed portions to only
those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed session.
The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any formal action may be
taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall mean a collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance given by members
of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions
authorized under division (A) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any
meeting be closed to the public.
      (2)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its
members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee
of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions of this
article.
      (3)   No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this article.
   (E)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to chance meetings, or
to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public
body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened and
there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the
public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(2005 Code, § 1-604)
§ 1-604 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
1-608 of this article shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
(2005 Code, § 1-605)
§ 1-605 MEETING MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
(2005 Code, § 1-606)
§ 1-606 VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the
record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not
voting.
      (2)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by the municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which
allows the yeas and nays of each member of the governing body to be readily
seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(2005 Code, § 1-607)
§ 1-607 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, Secretary or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(2005 Code, § 1-608)
§ 1-608 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this article, the public shall have the
right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or
any part of a meeting of a public body may be recorded by any person in
attendance by means of a tape recorder or any other means of sonic reproduction
or in writing.
   (B)   Any public body may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations
regarding the conduct of persons attending its meetings and regarding their
privilege to speak. A body is not required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, nor may it forbid public participation at all meetings.
(2005 Code, § 1-609)
§ 1-609 GOVERNING BODY.
   The meetings of the local governing body shall be held in the Council
Chambers of City Hall or in such other places in the city as the Mayor and
Council shall, from time to time, fix by resolution. Regular meetings shall be
held on the first and third Tuesday of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m.;
provided, that the Mayor and City Council may, by order, adjourn at any time
not to exceed one regular meeting. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor,
or by four members of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted
to the Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. No other
business shall be transacted at such meeting unless all members of the City
Council are present and consent thereto. On filing that call for a special
meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the Council members of the special
meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not
be given to a Council member known to be out of the state or physically unable
to be present. A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day and compel the attendance of absent members; provided, that on the
request of any two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent
members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for
the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and
announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present the Council shall
be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of
the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council,
the City Council members shall elect a President pro tempore.
(2005 Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 2427, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 1-610 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the governing body and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the governing
body. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave
the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from
his or her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer and,
while speaking, shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two or
more persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first.
All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon,
if requested by the Municipal Clerk, or any member of the governing body. Every
member of the governing body who is present when a question is voted upon shall
cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the governing body
present. No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it
shall be stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a
motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the
governing body making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After
each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken, and entered in the minutes
upon the request of any member of the governing body. Before the vote is
actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn
from consideration by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the member of the
governing body seconding the said resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum or the longest time. A question to
reconsider shall be in order when made by a member voting with the majority,
but such motion to reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third
regular meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When any
question is under debate, no motion shall be made, entertained or seconded
except the previous question, a motion to table and to adjourn. Each of the
said motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the rules of the governing
body for meetings may be suspended by a majority vote of the members present.
In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of
Order is the authority by which the governing body shall decide all procedural
disputes that may arise.
(2005 Code, § 1-611)
§ 1-611 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet at their regular time on the first Tuesday in December of each year in
which a municipal election is held, and the outgoing members of the Council
shall present their reports. The preceding Council, having completed its
business up to the said time, will adjourn sine die, and the new Council shall
proceed to organize itself for the ensuing year. Outgoing members of the
Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and outgoing
officers shall each surrender to their successor all property, records, papers
and funds belonging to the same.
(2005 Code, § 1-612) (Ord. 2457, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 1-612 ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the designated meeting place in
the city on the first Tuesday in December of each year in which a municipal
election is held. Each officer elected at the annual municipal election shall
take possession of their office following the sine die adjournment of the
former Council and having taken their oath of office as rendered by the City
Clerk. Each member of the Council shall be a qualified elector of the city and
reside in the ward from which they were elected. The Mayor elected for the new
municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council may examine the
credentials of its members and other elected officers of the city to see that
each has been duly and properly elected, affirming that such oaths and bonds
have been given as required. After ascertaining that all members are duly
qualified, the Council will elect one of its own body to be styled as
“President of the Council.” The Mayor shall then nominate their candidates for
the appointed offices of the city. Such appointments shall be confirmed by a
three-fourths vote of the City Council, after which the regular order of new
business shall proceed. Appointed officers shall qualify for their position
within two weeks of their appointment. Qualifications for each officer who is
not required to give a bond shall consist of taking an oath of office to
support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the state,
the laws of the municipality, and to perform faithfully and impartially the
duties of their office. Said oaths will be filed in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. Each officer required to give a bond shall file the required bond in the
office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the
faithful discharge of the duties of their office, with the oath endorsed
thereon.
(2005 Code, § 1-613) (Ord. 2457, passed 6-21-2022)
ARTICLE 7: ORDINANCES
Section
   
1-701   Grant of power
   
1-702   Rules and regulations
   
1-703   Appropriation of money
   
1-704   Reading
   
1-705   Publication
   
1-706   Style
   
1-707   Title
   
1-708   Emergency ordinances
   
1-709   Amendments and revisions
   
1-710   Introduction
   
1-711   Resolutions and motions
§ 1-701 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
by-laws, rules regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the municipality and its trade, commerce and
security.
(2005 Code, § 1-701)
§ 1-702 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be passed pursuant to such rules and regulations
as the Council may provide. All ordinances may be proven by the certificate of
the Municipal Clerk under the seal of the municipality. The passage, approval
and publication or posting of any ordinance shall be sufficiently proven by a
certificate under the seal of the city from the Clerk showing that such
ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what paper the same was
published.
   (B)   The municipal code shall be received as evidence of the passage and
legal publication of its contents in all courts without further proof.
(2005 Code, § 1-702)
§ 1-703 APPROPRIATION OF MONEY.
   (A)   All ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation or payment
of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of a
majority of all members elected to the Council.
   (B)   The Mayor may vote on such matter when his or her vote shall be
decisive and the Council is equally divided and the Mayor shall, for the
purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-703)
§ 1-704 READING.
   Ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members
elected to the governing body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature
shall be read by the title on three different days. This requirement may be
suspended by three-fourths vote of the Council; in such case, said ordinance
may be read by title or number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths
of the Council may require any ordinance to be read in full before final
passage under either process.
(2005 Code, § 1-704)
§ 1-705 PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within 15
days after they are passed in some newspaper in or of general circulation in
the municipality or, if no paper is published in the municipality or of general
circulation therein, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each
of three public places in the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 1-705)
§ 1-706 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor
and Council of the City of Holdrege, Nebraska: ...”.
(2005 Code, § 1-706)
§ 1-707 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(2005 Code, § 1-707)
§ 1-708 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other impending
danger or any other emergency requiring its immediate operation, such ordinance
shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor, and the posting thereof
in at least three of the most public places in the municipality. Such emergency
notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered upon the Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(2005 Code, § 1-708)
§ 1-709 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
that ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(2005 Code, § 1-709)
§ 1-710 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in either of
the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council member may rise in his or
her place and, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected
to the Council, read aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and
file a copy of the same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council member may present his or
her proposed ordinance to the Mayor, who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance
of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(2005 Code, § 1-710)
§ 1-711 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The Mayor may vote any such matter when his or
her vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided, and the Mayor
shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed a member of the Council. The
vote on any resolution or motion shall be viva voce and “yeas” and “nays”
thereon shall be recorded by the Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 1-711)
ARTICLE 8: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-801   Generally
   
1-802   Primary election; number of candidates filing
   
1-803   Tie votes
   
1-804   General election; preparation of ballot
   
1-805   Election to terms
   
1-806   Filing fee
   
1-807   Petition candidates
   
1-808   Wards
   
1-809   Voter qualifications
   
1-810   Ballots
   
1-811   Inability to assume office
§ 1-801 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 32. Said elections shall be held in
conjunction with the state primary and general election. Prior to February 1 of
the year in which the first such joint election takes place, the governing body
shall receive the consent in writing of the County Board to so hold the
election and such authorization shall be prescribed according to state law. The
County Clerk shall have charge of the election and shall have the authority to
deputize the Municipal Clerk for municipal election purposes.
   (B)   Commencing with the statewide primary election in 1976, and every two
years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the statewide
primary election and elected at the statewide general election.
(2005 Code, § 1-801)
§ 1-802 PRIMARY ELECTION; NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required.
(2005 Code, § 1-802)
§ 1-803 TIE VOTES.
   (A)   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the
primary or general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to
appear at his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by
lot before the canvassing boards and the certificate of nomination or election
shall be given accordingly.
   (B)   Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(2005 Code, § 1-803)
§ 1-804 GENERAL ELECTION; PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition or write-
in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
(2005 Code, § 1-804)
§ 1-805 ELECTION TO TERMS.
   (A)   The candidates shall be placed on the general ballot and the
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected to terms of
the longest duration, and those receiving the next greatest number of votes
shall be elected to the remaining term or terms. The County Clerk shall place
the names of the candidates on the general election ballot in the direct order
according to the number of votes received at the primary election. If no
primary election was held, the names of the candidates shall be placed upon the
general election ballot in the order of their filing. The term of office of all
such members shall commence on the first regular meeting of the Council in
December following their election.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the Council resulting from causes other than expiration
of the term shall be filled by note of the remaining members as provided in §
1-202 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 1-805)
§ 1-806 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to
the Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to 1% of the annual
salary for the office for which the candidate will file; provided, there shall
be no filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per diem is
paid rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of less
than $500 per year.
   (B)   No nominating papers shall be filed until the proper Municipal
Treasurer’s receipt, showing the payment of the filing fee, shall be presented
to the election officer with whom the nomination papers are to be filed.
(2005 Code, § 1-806)
§ 1-807 PETITION CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Candidates for any municipal office in the municipality may be
nominated by petition.
   (B)   Such petitions shall contain signatures of registered voters equal in
number to 5% of the votes cast in the voting unit at the most recent municipal
election or 25 signatures, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Petitions must be filed at least 60 days prior to the state primary.
(2005 Code, § 1-807)
§ 1-808 WARDS.
   (A)   The city shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most recent
federal census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in population.
   (B)   The city shall be divided into the following wards as set forth
herein.
      (1)   Holdrege Election Precinct Ward 1. Beginning at the point located
approximately 157 feet east of the intersection of South Sherman Street and
13th Street, also 731 Road, also a corner of the City of Holdrege city
boundary:
         (a)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (b)   Thence east along the city limit to South Lincoln Street;
         (c)   Thence north along the city limit, also South Lincoln Street;
         (d)   Thence east along the city limit;
         (e)   Thence north along the city limit to East 4th Avenue;
         (f)   Thence east along the city limit, also East 4th Avenue;
         (g)   Thence north along the city limit to the point Holstein Drive
intersects US Highway 34/6;
         (h)   Thence northeast along the city limit, also US Highway 34/6;
         (i)   Thence north along the city limit and parallel to Holstein
Drive;
         (j)   Thence on a curve to the northeast along the city limit;
         (k)   Thence east along the city limit;
         (l)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (m)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (n)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (o)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (p)   Thence south along the city limit to 11th Avenue;
         (q)   Thence west along the city limit, also 11th Avenue;
         (r)   Thence south along the city limit and parallel to Holstein Drive
to US Highway 34/6;
         (s)   Thence southwest along the city limit and US Highway 34/6;
         (t)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (u)   Thence west along the city limit to Lincoln Street;
         (v)   Thence north along the city limit, also Lincoln Street, to 18th
Avenue;
         (w)   Thence west along the city limit, also 18th Avenue, to the
eastern boundary of Block 1009;
         (x)   Thence south along the eastern edge of Block 1009 to 14th
Avenue;
         (y)   Thence south along Logan Street to 11th Avenue;
         (z)   Thence south along an invisible line that would be an extension
of Logan Street to the intersection of 10th Avenue and Logan Street;
         (aa)   Thence south along Logan Street to South Logan Street;
         (bb)   Thence south along South Logan Street to 4th Street;
         (cc)   Thence south along an invisible line that would be an extension
of Logan Street to 13th Street, also the City of Holdrege city boundary, also
the point of beginning.
      (2)   Holdrege Election Precinct Ward 2. Beginning at an invisible point
located at the most south and east corner of the City of Holdrege boundary,
this point being approximately 40 feet east of the beginning point of District
4:
         (a)   Thence north and parallel to US Highway 183;
         (b)   Thence continuing north along a line parallel and approximately
40 feet to the east of South East Avenue to 13th Street;
         (c)   Thence east on 13th Street to the invisible point that would be
the intersection of Logan Street, if it were extended south, and 13th Street,
also 731 Road, and the City of Holdrege;
         (d)   Thence north along this invisible extension of Logan Street to
the intersection of 4th Street and South Logan Street;
         (e)   Thence north along South Logan Street to Logan Street;
         (f)   Thence north along Logan Street to 10th Avenue;
         (g)   Thence north along the invisible extension of Logan Street
between 10th Avenue and 11th Avenue;
         (h)   Thence north along Logan Street to 14th Avenue;
         (i)   Thence northeast and north along the boundary of Block 1009 to
18th Avenue and also the City of Holdrege boundary;
         (j)   Thence west along the city limit, also 18th Avenue;
         (k)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (l)   Thence west along the city limit to Grant Street;
         (m)   Thence south along Grant Street to 18th Avenue;
         (n)   Thence southeast along the invisible line to the place where
Grant Street intersects 14th Avenue;
         (o)   Thence south along Grant Street to 12th Avenue;
         (p)   Thence west along 12th Avenue to Grant Street;
         (q)   Thence south along Grant Street to 3rd Street;
         (r)   Thence east along 3rd Street to South East Avenue;
         (s)   Thence south along South East Avenue to US Highway 183;
         (t)   Thence south along US Highway 183, also South East Avenue to the
City of Holdrege boundary;
         (u)   Thence east along the city limit, approximately 40 feet to the
point of beginning.
      (3)   Holdrege Election Precinct Ward 3. Beginning at a point on the
southern boundary of the City of Holdrege where US Highway 183 enters the city:
         (a)   Thence north along US Highway 183, also South East Avenue;
         (b)   Thence continuing north along South East Avenue to 3rd Street;
         (c)   Thence west along 3rd Street to the invisible point where Grant
Street would intersect 3rd Street;
         (d)   Thence north along this invisible line to Grant Street and along
Grant Street to 12th Avenue;
         (e)   Thence east along 12th Avenue to Grant Street;
         (f)   Thence north along Grant Street to 14th Avenue;
         (g)   Thence north-northwest along an invisible line to the place
where Grant Street intersects 18th Avenue;
         (h)   Thence north along Grant Street to 22nd Avenue, also the City of
Holdrege boundary;
         (i)   Thence west along the city limit to US Highway 183;
         (j)   Thence south along US Highway 183 to the City of Holdrege
boundary, also South Burlington Street;
         (k)   Thence continuing south along the city limit;
         (l)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (m)   Thence south along the city limit, parallel and to the west of
County Road N;
         (n)   Thence east along the city limit to the point of beginning.
      (4)   Holdrege Election Precinct Ward 4. Beginning at the point where
South Burlington Street meets US Highway 183, also a point on the City of
Holdrege boundary:
         (a)   Thence north along US Highway 183 to the City of Holdrege
boundary;
         (b)   Thence north along the city limit;
         (c)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (d)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (e)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (f)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (g)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (h)   Thence south along the city limit to West 18th Avenue, also 733
Road;
         (i)   Thence east along the city limit, also West 18th Avenue to
Broadway Street;
         (j)   Thence along a curve to the southeast along the city limit, also
Broadway Street, to Rhea Street;
         (k)   Thence southwest along the city limit, also Rhea Street;
         (l)   Thence south along the city limit, also Rhea Street;
         (m)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (n)   Thence south along the city limit, also parallel to Rhea Street;
         (o)   Thence east along the city limit to Rhea Street;
         (p)   Thence south along the city limit, also Rhea Street, to West
11th Avenue;
         (q)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (r)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (s)   Thence southwest along the city limit;
         (t)   Thence west along the city limit;
         (u)   Thence northwest along the city limit;
         (v)   Thence continuing in a northwest direction along an invisible
extension of this line to Gustin Street;
         (w)   Thence south along Gustin Street to the city boundary;
         (x)   Thence south along Gustin Street and the city limit;
         (y)   Thence northwest along the city limit;
         (z)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (aa)   Thence east along the city limit;
         (bb)   Thence northeast along the city limit;
         (cc)   Thence southeast along the city limit;
         (dd)   Thence northeast along the city limit;
         (ee)   Thence northwest along the city limit;
         (ff)   Thence northeast along the city limit;
         (gg)   Thence southeast along the city limit;
         (hh)   Thence south-southeast along the city limit;
         (ii)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (jj)   Thence southwest along the city limit;
         (kk)   Thence south-southwest along the city limit;
         (ll)   Thence east-northeast along the city limit;
         (mm)   Thence south along the city limit;
         (nn)   Thence east along the city limit to the point of beginning.
(2005 Code, § 1-808) (Ord. 2341, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 2454, passed 12-21-
2021)
§ 1-809 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(2005 Code, § 1-809)
§ 1-810 BALLOTS.
   The municipality shall, through the County Clerk, provide printed ballots
for every general municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering
the ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 1-810)
§ 1-811 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the electorate
had reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the
candidate in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall
be declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided that, any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected, or reasonable notice of the winners ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-811)
ARTICLE 9: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-901   Financial statement
   
1-902   Budget statement
   
1-903   Budget hearing
   
1-904   Budget filing
   
1-905   Annual audit
   
1-906   Property tax
   
1-907   Disbursements by Treasurer
   
1-908   Appropriation
   
1-909   Expenditures
   
1-910   Judgment
   
1-911   Unlawful transfers
   
1-912   Lawful transfer of funds
   
1-913   Insufficient funds
   
1-914   Sinking funds
   
1-915   Depositories
   
1-916   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; security required
   
1-917   Depository bond
   
1-918   Depository securities
   
1-919   Maximum deposits
   
1-920   Investment of funds
   
1-921   Claims
   
1-922   Claims; audits
   
1-923   Warrants
   
1-924   Contracts; appropriation
   
1-925   Contract vote
   
1-926   Contract advertising
§ 1-901 FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   The Mayor and Council shall cause to be published semi-annually a statement
of the receipts of the city and the sources thereof and an itemized account of
the expenditures and the financial condition of the city.
(2005 Code, § 1-901)
§ 1-902 BUDGET STATEMENT.
   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement on
forms furnished by the State Auditor. The proposed budget statement shall be
made available to the public prior to the notice of hearing on the proposed
budget statement; the proposed budget statement shall contain the non-tax
revenue which was allocated to each of the several funds, the unencumbered cash
balance of each fund at the beginning and end of the prior fiscal year, the
amount received by taxation allocated to each fund and the actual expenditures
for each fund. For the current fiscal year, the budget statement shall contain
the actual and estimated revenue from non-tax sources, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount to be received
from taxation allocated to each fund and the amount of actual and estimated
expenditures. For the immediate ensuing fiscal year, the budget statement
should include an estimate of the non-tax revenue from each source and which
fund it is to be allocated to, the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balance for each fund which will be available at the beginning of the next
fiscal year, amounts proposed to be expended during the year, and the amount of
cash reserve which shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive
of capital outlay items. The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined
herein, plus the estimated revenue from sources other than taxation, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the required
cash reserve for the ensuing year.
(2005 Code, § 1-902)
§ 1-903 BUDGET HEARING.
   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the governing
body shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed budget statement. Notice of
the place and time of the said hearing, as well as a copy of the proposed
budget, shall be published at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. After such
hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended, and adopted as amended,
and a written record shall be made of such hearing. If the adopted budget
statement reflects a change from that shown in the published proposed budget
statement, a summary of such changes shall be published within 20 days after
its adoption.
(2005 Code, § 1-903)
§ 1-904 BUDGET FILING.
   The governing body shall file with, and certify to the Levying Board on, or
before September 20, and the State Auditor a copy of the adopted budget
statement, together with the amount of the tax to be levied and proof of
publication. The governing body shall not certify any tax that exceeds the
maximum levy prescribed by state law; provided, in certifying the amount to be
so levied, allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the
amount to be levied, plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the
preceding tax year.
(2005 Code, § 1-904)
§ 1-905 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the governing body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately, and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth a financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund, or group of accounts, of the
municipality as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the
financial statements. Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with
the Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the
Municipal Clerk’s office and will, at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(2005 Code, § 1-905)
§ 1-906 PROPERTY TAX.
   The governing body shall have the power to levy and collect taxes for all
municipal purposes on all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits which is taxable according to the laws of the state. All
municipal taxes, both real and personal, except special assessments otherwise
provided for, shall become due on December 1 of each year. The Council shall
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied for
the purposes of the adopted budget statement, including all special assessments
and other taxes. The County Clerk shall then place the same on the proper tax
list to be collected in the manner provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-906)
§ 1-907 DISBURSEMENTS BY TREASURER.
   All money in the hands of the City Treasurer and all money coming into the
possession of the city, or received by the Treasurer thereof, shall be kept and
disbursed under various funds created by resolution of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 1-907)
§ 1-908 APPROPRIATION.
   The city shall within the last quarter of each fiscal year pass an ordinance
to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which the governing body shall
appropriate such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city, not exceeding in the aggregate
the amount of tax authorized to be levied and revenue available during the then
ensuing year. In such ordinance, there shall be specified the object and
purpose for which such appropriations are made and the amount or amounts
appropriated for each object or purpose. (This financial information probably
will be the same as the final approved budget.) No further appropriations shall
be made at any other time within such fiscal year, unless the proposition to
make such appropriations has been sanctioned by a majority of the legal voters
of the city, either by a petition signed by them or at a general or special
election duly called therefor. All appropriations shall end with the fiscal
year for which they are made; provided, the fund arising from road taxes and
bridge taxes shall be deemed especially appropriated for street repair
purposes; and the income arising from the operation of the utility systems
shall be deemed especially appropriated to the payment of the current expenses
of and to the cost of improvements and extensions and additions to said systems
respectively, and shall not be included in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance.
Nothing in this ordinance contained shall be construed to prohibit the Council
from appropriating other money in the Annual Appropriation Bill for the use of
streets, grades and bridges and for water, lighting, power, heating and sewer
systems; provided, the sums so appropriated in the aggregate do not exceed the
maximum of tax allowed to be levied and collected as fixed by the laws of the
state.
(2005 Code, § 1-908)
§ 1-909 EXPENDITURES.
   The governing body shall not have the power to appropriate, issue or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasurer for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance or the claim has been allowed and a
fund has been provided in the adopted budget statement out of which such claim
is payable.
(2005 Code, § 1-909)
§ 1-910 JUDGMENT.
   Should any judgment be obtained against the municipality, the Mayor and the
Committee on Finances, with the sanction of the City Council, may borrow a
sufficient amount to pay the same for a period of time not to extend beyond the
close of the next fiscal year. The governing body shall then add to the amount
authorized to be raised in the general tax levy the sum and interest accrued of
the judgment.
(2005 Code, § 1-910)
§ 1-911 UNLAWFUL TRANSFERS.
   Any transfer or division of the money or credits from any of the funds to
another fund or to a purpose other than for which proposed, except as
specifically hereinafter provided, shall render any Council member voting
therefor or any municipal official participating therein guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 1-911)
§ 1-912 LAWFUL TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   When the City Council, by a three-fourths vote of the members, shall declare
the expenditure of any fund for the purpose for which it was created to be
unwise and impracticable or where the purpose has been fully accomplished and
the whole fund or an unexpired balance thereof remains, and no indebtedness has
been incurred on account of such fund which has not been fully paid, such fund
may be transferred to any other fund of the municipality by the affirmative
vote of three-fourths of all the members of the Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-912)
§ 1-913 INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during the fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for original money and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget and the approval of the
governing body, the governing body shall file with the County Clerk and the
State Auditor, a copy of the supplemental budget and shall certify the amount
of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. The
warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants” and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefore.
(2005 Code, § 1-913)
§ 1-914 SINKING FUNDS.
   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the governing
body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three times on successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The governing body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition and applicable
state law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the governing
body in the manner provided by state law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the governing body is authorized to do so by 60% of the
qualified electors of the municipality voting at a general election favoring
such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
(2005 Code, § 1-914)
§ 1-915 DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in state or national banks, of approved and
responsible standing, all money collected, received or held by him or her as
such Municipal Treasurer. Such deposits shall be subject to all regulations
imposed by law or adopted by the City Council for the receiving and holding
thereof.
   (B)   The fact that a stockholder, director or other officer of such banking
institution shall also be serving as Mayor, member of the City Council, member
of a Board of Public Works or as any other officer of such municipality, shall
not disqualify such bank from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
(2005 Code, § 1-915)
§ 1-916 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; SECURITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in banks selected as depositories of municipal funds under provisions
herein.
   (B)   The certificates of deposit purchased and time deposits shall bear
interest, and shall be secured as set forth herein; provided that, the penal
sum of such bond or the sum of such pledge of assets shall be reduced in the
amount of the time deposit or certificate of deposit insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(2005 Code, § 1-916)
§ 1-917 DEPOSITORY BOND.
   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Treasurer shall
require each depository bank to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the city and
be approved by the Mayor. Such bond shall be conditioned that such a depository
shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a statement in
duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the amount of money of the city
held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion thereto and how
credited. The bond shall also be conditioned that the depository shall
generally do and perform whatever may be required by the provisions herein and
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in such depository. Such bond shall be
as nearly as practicable in the form provided by the laws of the state;
provided, no person in any way connected with any depository bank, as officer
or stockholder, shall be accepted as a surety on any bond given by the bank of
which he or she is an officer or stockholder. Such bond shall be deposited with
the Municipal Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 1-917)
§ 1-918 DEPOSITORY SECURITIES.
   (A)   In lieu of the bond required herein, any bank making application to
become a depository may deposit with the Municipal Clerk, United States
government bonds, bonds of the state or of any state whose bonds are purchased
by the Board of Educational Lands and Funds of the state for investment of the
Permanent School Fund, warrants of the state, county bonds, municipal bonds or
school district bonds of any county, city, village or school district in the
state issued under the direction of and with the approval of the Auditor of
Public Accounts, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by
any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or warrants of the county or any city, village or school district in the
county; provided that, the penal sum of said bond or the sum of said pledge of
assets shall be of the value equal to or greater than the amount of the deposit
in excess of that portion said deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
   (B)   The depository bank furnishing securities above described shall have
the right to substitute other approved securities herein provided for in lieu
of securities already pledged if it so desires at any time.
(2005 Code, § 1-918)
§ 1-919 MAXIMUM DEPOSITS.
   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank at any time more than
the maximum amount of the bond given by said bank if the bank gives a surety
bond, nor in any bank giving a personal bond, more than one-half of the amount
of the bond of such bank; and the amount so on deposit at any time with any
bank shall not, in either case, exceed the paid-up capital stock and surplus of
such bank, nor more than 90% of the par value of the securities furnished by
said bank in cases where the bank deposits approved securities in lieu of a
bond. The Municipal Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss sustained by
reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose bond shall have been
duly approved by the Mayor as herein provided, or which has, in lieu of a
surety bond, deposited approved securities as herein provided.
(2005 Code, § 1-919)
§ 1-920 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the municipality shall have accumulated a surplus in its
General Fund in excess of its current needs, or shall have accumulated a
sinking fund for the payment of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund
shall exceed the amount necessary to pay the principal and interest of any such
bonds which become due during the current year, the Mayor and Council are
authorized to invest such surplus in its General Fund, in excess of current
needs, or such excess in its sinking funds, in any securities in which the
Board of Educational Lands and Funds of the state is authorized by law to
invest the educational funds of the state, including bonds and debentures
issued either singly or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the
12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the
supervision of the Farm Credit Administration.
   (B)   When any warrant of the municipality shall have been presented for
payment and the same is not paid for want of funds, the Treasurer shall, upon
and under direction of the Mayor and Council, purchase and take up such
registered warrant with the sinking funds in the hands of the Treasurer and
hold such warrant for the benefit of the fund so invested until the same is
paid in its order, as provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-920)
§ 1-921 CLAIMS.
   (A)   All claims against the city shall be presented to the Mayor and City
Council, in writing, with a full account of the items, verified by oath of the
claimant or his or her agent that such claims are correct, reasonable and just,
and no claim or demand shall be audited or allowed unless the same shall be
presented and verified as provided by this article, and no costs shall be
recovered against the city in any action brought against it for any
unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Mayor and City Council
to be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be
for a greater sum than the amount allowed, with interest due.
   (B)   Further, all claims against the municipality, including claims for
personal injury, but not including officers’ salaries and interest upon public
debts, must be filed with the Municipal Clerk. Upon the filing of any such
claim, the party shall state therein his or her post office address; and, upon
the disallowance of any such claim, it will be the duty of the Municipal Clerk
to notify the claimant, his or her agent or attorney by letter mailed to such
address within five days after such disallowance.
(2005 Code, § 1-921)
§ 1-922 CLAIMS; AUDITS.
   The Finance Committee shall, prior to the allowance of any claim against the
municipality, examine and audit the same to determine whether it is in proper
form, is correctly computed and is justly and legally due and payable, and
shall determine the proper fund from which the same is payable.
(2005 Code, § 1-922)
§ 1-923 WARRANTS.
   Upon allowance of a claim by the Council, the order for the payment thereof
shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which it is payable
as specified in the Annual Appropriation Bill and no order or warrant shall be
drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose of which it is drawn
unless there shall be sufficient money in the Treasury to the credit of the
proper fund for its payment, and no claim shall be audited or allowed except an
order or warrant for the payment thereof may legally be drawn. All warrants
drawn upon the Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Clerk and shall state the particular fund or appropriation to which the same is
chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular object. No money
shall be otherwise paid that has not been drawn upon such warrant. Such
warrants may be delivered immediately when so drawn.
(2005 Code, § 1-923)
§ 1-924 CONTRACTS; APPROPRIATION.
   No contract shall be made by the City Council or any committee or member
thereof and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or departments
of the municipality, whether the object of the expenditure is ordered by the
City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been previously made
concerning such expense, except as otherwise provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 1-924)
§ 1-925 CONTRACT VOTE.
   (A)   On the passage or adoption of every resolution or order to enter into
a contract, or accepting of work done under contract, by the Mayor or Council,
the “yeas” and “nays” shall be called and entered upon the record.
   (B)   To pass or adopt any by-law, ordinance or any such resolution, or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of the members elected
to the Council shall be required.
   (C)   The Mayor may vote on any such matter when his or her vote shall be
decisive and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a
member of the Council.
(2005 Code, § 1-925)
§ 1-926 CONTRACT ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No contracts for services, material or labor for enlargement or
improvement costing over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by
the City Council.
   (B)   Before the City Council shall make any contract in excess of $20,000
for general improvements, such as water extensions, sewer, public heating
systems, bridges or work on streets, or any other work or improvement where the
cost of such improvement shall be assessed to the property, an estimate of the
cost thereof shall be made by the City Engineer and submitted to the Council.
No contract shall be entered into for any such work or improvement, or for the
purchase of such equipment, for any price exceeding $20,000 without advertising
for bids.
   (C)   A municipal electrical utility may enter into a contract for any such
work or improvement or for the purchase of such equipment without advertising
for bids if the:
      (1)   Price is $20,000 or less;
      (2)   Price is $40,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000; or
      (3)   Price is $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000.
   (D)   In advertising for bids of any such work, or for the purchase of such
equipment, the Council shall cause the amount of such estimate to be published
therewith. Such advertisement shall be published at least ten days in some
legal newspaper of general circulation published in the city. In case of a
public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimate of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Council and entered on record.
   (E)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract for any work or
improvement, or if the bids received by the City Council contain a price which
exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the governing body shall have the
authority to negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
project at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
   (F)   The municipal bidding procedure shall be waived when materials or
equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials
or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the state bidding
procedures.
(2005 Code, § 1-926)
ARTICLE 10: EMINENT DOMAIN
Section
   
1-1001   Procedure
§ 1-1001 PROCEDURE.
   The governing body may, after negotiations in good faith have failed, bring
condemnation actions for the acquisition of property within the city. Such
procedure shall be prescribed by state law and damages shall be paid to the
condemnee according to the provisions therein.
(2005 Code, § 1-1001)
ARTICLE 11: COMPENSATION
Section
   
1-1101   Municipal officers and employees
   
1-1102   Change in salary
§ 1-1101 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Salaries of officers and employees of the municipality shall be in
such amount as the governing body shall fix by ordinance; provided that, after
the governing body has adopted a wage and salary schedule with appropriate
employee classifications and wage ranges for each classification, by ordinance,
such ordinance shall be sufficient for all changes in salary for municipal
employees included thereunder without further ordinances being passed, approved
and published. The salaries of elected officials shall be:
      (1)   Mayor: $7,000 per year; and
      (2)   Council members: $2,400 per year.
   (B)   All other salaries shall be on file at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(2005 Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 2424, passed 3-19-2019)
§ 1-1102 CHANGE IN SALARY.
   The emoluments of any elected official shall not be increased or diminished
during the term of office for which he or she was elected; except that, elected
officials who are elected to the Council or other body having more than one
member and terms of one or more members commence and end at different times,
the compensation of all members of that body may be increased or diminished at
the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any elective office shall be again eligible to hold the
office during the term he or she was elected to if, after resignation, the
emoluments have been increased.
(2005 Code, § 1-1102)
ARTICLE 12: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
1-1201   Violation; penalty
§ 1-1201 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   Article
      
1.   STANDING COMMITTEES
      
2.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: STANDING COMMITTEES
Section
   
2-101   General provisions
§ 2-101 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At that organizational meeting of the City Council, which first
follows the statewide general election, the Council shall elect from among its
number the members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by a majority of the members elected to the Council. The
Mayor shall be a member ex-officio of each standing committee. The members of
the standing committees shall serve a term of office of two years, unless
reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
every two years until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Utilities;
      (2)   Municipal Services;
      (3)   Administrative Services; and
      (4)   Public Safety.
(2005 Code, § 2-101)
ARTICLE 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
   
2-201   Library Board
   
2-202   Planning Commission
   
2-203   Board of Adjustment
   
2-204   Board of Health
   
2-205   Reserved
   
2-206   Reserved
   
2-207   Housing Authority Board
   
2-208   Airport Authority
   
2-209   Civil Service Commission; Personnel Plan
   
2-210   Community Redevelopment Authority
   
2-211   Citizen’s Advisory Review Committee
   
2-212   Veterans Memorial Committee
§ 2-201 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall appoint five members to the Library
Board, who will serve with an equal number appointed by Phelps County. Members
of the Library Board shall serve a three-year term of office without
compensation. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in July of each year,
the Board shall organize by selecting a President and Vice President from its
number. It shall be the duty of the Vice President to keep the complete and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Library Board shall have the authority to
appoint a Library Director and all other library employees.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge of the
Municipal Library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation and use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the library including the librarian. The Board
shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such additional
duties as the governing body may designate from time to time.
   (C)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Library
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No
member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson
and Secretary of the Board.
(2005 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 2482, passed 12-3-2024)
§ 2-202 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Planning Commission which shall
consist of nine members who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the
different professions or occupations in the municipality and who shall be
residents of the municipality. However, two of such members may be residents of
the area over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulations. The members of the Commission shall serve a
three-year term of office unless reappointed. The Commission shall serve
without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing
body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of its duties. At the time of the
Commission’s first meeting in January of each year, the Commission shall
organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall
be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk, where they shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall be funded by the governing body from
time to time out of the General Fund.
   (C)   A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any three members of the Commission. The Planning Commission
shall hold at least one regular meeting each month.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the
physical development of the municipality, including any areas outside its
boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning
of the municipality. The governing body authorizes the Planning Commission to
grant conditional uses or special exceptions to property owners for the use of
their property and approves the standards and procedures adopted by the
Commission for equitably and judiciously granting such conditional uses or
special exceptions. All actions of the Commission shall be subject to the
review and supervision of the governing body. The Commission shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
governing body may, from time to time, designate.
   (E)   No member of the governing body, or other municipal official, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning
Commission while serving any other term of office. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission.
(2005 Code, § 2-202)
§ 2-203 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Adjustment which shall
consist of five regular members, plus one additional member designated as an
alternate, who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is
unable to attend for any reason. Each member of the Board shall serve a term of
three years, unless reappointed, and shall be removable only for good and
sufficient cause by the governing body upon written charges and after a public
hearing. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. One member of the Board of Adjustment shall be at
the same time a member of the Planning Commission at all times. Upon the loss
of membership on the Planning Commission, the said member shall also lose his
or her membership on the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall organize at its
first meeting in January of each year and elect from its membership a
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep
complete and accurate minutes of all Board meetings and to file the same at the
office of the Municipal Clerk for examination at any reasonable time by the
public.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall be funded from time to time out of the
General Fund by the governing body.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as the governing
body may designate, or at such other times as the Chairperson may, in his or
her discretion call a meeting. Special meetings may be also held upon the call
of any three members of the Board.
   (D)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Board to hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by a municipal official based on any zoning ordinance of the
municipality; to hear and decide in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning ordinance, requests for interpretation of any map; and authorize a
variance from the strict application of any zoning ordinance if it is found
that a specific piece of property, due to exceptional specifications existing
at the time of passage of the said ordinance, would result in exceptional
difficulties and undue hardship; provided that, no variance shall be granted if
the undue hardship appears to affect the property in the district generally, or
if the situation of the property concerned appears to be so general or
recurring in nature as to make reasonably practicable, the formulation of a
general regulation to be adopted by the governing body as an ordinance. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by a municipal official on
any matter which was governed by any municipal zoning ordinance.
      (2)   The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the governing body may designate.
   (F)   (1)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the
Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(2005 Code, § 2-203)
§ 2-204 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of five members. The members of the Board shall include: the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve as Secretary and
quarantine officer; a physician who shall serve as the medical advisor; the
President of the City Council; and one other member. The members of the Board
shall serve, without compensation, a one-year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in January of each year.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk, where
they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall be funded by the governing body from time to
time out of the General Fund.
   (C)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and
regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard the
health of the residents of the municipality. Included in the duties of the
Board shall be to enforce the said rules and regulations, and to provide fines
and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the
state and ordinances of the municipality relating to matters of sanitation
which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly
inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may direct. All
members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate.
   (D)   No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of
Health position.
(2005 Code, § 2-204)
§ 2-205 RESERVED.
§ 2-206 RESERVED.
§ 2-207 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The chief elected official shall appoint at least five and not
more than seven persons who shall constitute the Municipal Housing Authority.
Such persons shall constitute the governing body of the local housing agency
and will be called Commissioners. At least one Commissioner shall be appointed
each year and each Commissioner shall serve a five-year term of office or until
his or her successor is duly appointed; provided that all vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired terms. A certificate of the appointment or
reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk,
approved by the local governing body and will serve as conclusive evidence of
the proper appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no
compensation for his or her service, but shall be entitled to the necessary and
travel expenses incurred in discharge of his or her duties. A majority of
Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of
conducting its business, exercising its powers and for all other purposes.
Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the
Commissioners present unless in any case the by-laws of the Authority shall
require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an
executive director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Authority.
The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper.
      (2)   During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
commissioner, officer or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such commissioner,
officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as
commissioner, officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or
her interest in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any
action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she
has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send
a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days from the
receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a
hearing before the governing body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed
from office.
      (2)   If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the governing
body of the municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall
have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the governing body shall
determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
   (C)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(2005 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 2416, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 2-208 AIRPORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There has been established an Airport Authority for the city.
   (B)   The Airport Authority shall operate, and have the power and authority,
as provided in the Neb. RS 3-501 et seq.
(2005 Code, § 2-208)
§ 2-209 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; PERSONNEL PLAN.
   There has been created a Civil Service Commission for the city as provided
for by Neb. RS 19-1827, with the powers and duties as set forth in Neb. RS 19-
1827 through 19-1823. Such Civil Service Commission shall function pursuant to
the provisions of such state law applicable thereto and pursuant to the
procedures, rules and regulations of the “City of Holdrege Personnel Plan”,
applicable thereto. See
Ch. 12 of this code of ordinances for complete civil service information.
(2005 Code, § 2-209)
§ 2-210 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment
Authority of the city.
   (B)   Officers. The Mayor, with the approval of the governing body, shall
appoint five persons who shall constitute the Authority. The members of the
Authority shall serve a five-year term of office and shall serve without
compensation. The Authority shall organize by electing one of its members
Chairperson of the Authority and another of its members, the Vice-Chairperson.
Four members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its transactions, findings, determinations and
resolutions, which shall be made available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
   (C)   Director. The City Administrator or their designated representative
shall serve as the Director and ex officio Secretary of the Authority. The
Director shall perform such duties as may be assigned by the Authority,
including the necessary administrative functions described in the statutes,
under which the Authority has been created.
   (D)   Funds. All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the
Authority shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as ex officio Treasurer of
such Authority without commingling such money with any other money under his or
her control and disbursed by him or her by check or draft only upon warrants,
orders or requisitions by the Chairperson of such Authority or purpose for
which the same are drawn. A permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of
all warrants, orders or requisitions so drawn, showing the date, amount,
consideration and to whom payable.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Authority shall be vested with all the powers,
duties and responsibilities set forth at Ch. 18, Art. 21, the Community
Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
(2005 Code, § 2-210) (Ord. 2434, passed 11-19-2019; Ord. 2452, passed 1-4-2022)
§ 2-211 CITIZEN’S ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Citizens Advisory Review Committee. The
Mayor shall appoint seven registered voters of the city to the Committee,
subject to approval by the City Council. At least one member of the Committee
shall have expertise or experience in the field of business finance or
accounting. The Mayor shall appoint an ex officio member of the committee with
responsibility for assisting the committee and providing it with necessary
information and advice on the economic development plan. The County Development
Corporation shall have the responsibility for the administration of the
economic development program.
   (B)   No member of the Citizens Advisory Review Committee shall be an
elected or appointed city official, an employee of the city, a participant in a
decision-making position regarding the expenditure of program funds, or an
official or employee of any qualifying business receiving financial assistance
under the economic development program or of any financial institution
participating directly in the economic development program. The term for each
citizen shall be three years commencing on July 1 for each term, except that
three members of the first Citizens Advisory Review Committee shall serve for a
term of one year and three members of the first Citizens Advisory Review
Committee shall serve a term of two years. All citizen members shall hold
office until their successors are appointed. All citizen members’ vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of their term shall be filled
for the unexpired portion of their term by the Mayor, by and with the approval
and majority vote of the City Council.
   (C)   The members of the Citizens Advisory Review Committee shall serve
without compensation. The Committee shall organize at its first meeting and
elect from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of
the Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of all meetings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failed to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be public record. A majority of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum for purpose of doing business and the
Committee shall adopt rules in accordance with the direction of the governing
body.
   (D)   The Citizens Advisory Review Committee shall conduct regular meetings
to review the functioning and progress of the economic development program and
to advise the governing body of the city with regard to the program. At least
once in every six-month period after the effective date of this section, the
Committee shall report to the governing body on its findings and provide
suggestions at a public hearing called for that purpose.
   (E)   The members of the Citizens Advisory Review Committee, in their
capacity as members and consistent with their responsibilities as members, may
be permitted access to business information received by the city in the course
of its administration of the economic development program, which information
would otherwise be confidential:
      (1)   Neb. RS 84-712.05, as amended;
      (2)   By agreement with a qualifying business participating in the
economic development program; or
      (3)   Under any ordinance of the city providing access to such records to
members of the Committee and guaranteeing the confidentiality of the business
information received by reason of its administration of the economic
development program.
(Ord. 2224, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 2-212 VETERANS MEMORIAL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Veterans Memorial Committee of the City of
Holdrege. The Mayor shall appoint the Committee Chair and nine additional
residents of the city to the Committee, subject to approval by the City
Council. The Committee Chair shall have served honorably in the Armed Forces of
the United States, and the Committee shall organize and conduct itself
according to its bylaws.
   (B)   The term for each member shall be two years commencing on the first
day of January for each term, except that three members of the first Committee
shall serve for a term of one year, and three members of the first Committee
shall serve three years. All members shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. All vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of a
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion by appointment of the Committee
Chair and a simple majority vote of Committee members.
   (C)   The members of the Veterans Memorial Committee shall serve without
compensation and organize at their first meeting, electing a Vice-Chair and
Secretary from its membership. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep
complete and accurate minutes of all meetings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or, if absent or failed to vote, indicating such fact, and
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be public record. The Treasurer shall keep a record of the Committee’s
financial activities and reconcile those activities with the City Treasurer at
the end of each month. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business, and the Committee shall adopt rules in
accordance with its bylaws and at the direction of the local governing body.
   (D)   The Veterans Memorial Committee shall conduct regular meetings to
promote the development of the Veterans Memorial Park and elevate the
recognition of military veterans and their contributions to the defense of the
United States of America.
(Ord. 2464, passed 6-6-2023)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
2-301   Violation; penalty
§ 2-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS AND UTILITIES
   Article
      
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
4.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
5.   PARKS DEPARTMENT AND SWIMMING POOL
      
6.   LIBRARY
      
7.   LANDFILL
      
8.   AUDITORIUM
      
9.   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
10.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
11.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-101   Operation and funding
   
3-102   Definitions
   
3-103   Consumer’s application
   
3-104   Water contract
   
3-105   Connections not adjacent to mains
   
3-106   Installation procedure
   
3-107   Stop and waste cocks required
   
3-108   Meters required
   
3-109   Installation expense
   
3-110   Repairs and maintenance
   
3-111   Fees and collections
   
3-112   Water bills
   
3-113   Lien
   
3-114   Single premises
   
3-115   Restricted use
   
3-116   Fire hydrants
   
3-117   Private wells
   
3-118   Placement of hydrants, fountains and the like
   
3-119   Connections for private firefighting purposes
   
3-120   Backflow prevention
   
3-121   Use of hoses
   
3-122   Pollution
   
3-123   Water service contracts
   
3-124   Inspection
   
3-125   Police reports
   
3-126   Returns by plumbers of work done
   
3-127   Excavations in frozen ground; polluting water
   
3-128   Destruction of property
   
3-129   Licensed plumber
   
3-130   Time
   
3-131   Wellhead protection
   
3-132   Drought emergency contingency plan
§ 3-101 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the city’s Water
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the Municipal
Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body. The
governing body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal
Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(2005 Code, § 3-101)
§ 3-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no definition
is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in, the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shutoff, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(2005 Code, § 3-102)
§ 3-103 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water
may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe, except upon the order
of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply water service to any
person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
governing body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and
supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide water service to non-residents.
(2005 Code, § 3-103)
§ 3-104 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality as and when, according to law,
the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates
hereinafter named in this article shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her
agent. Unpaid shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum and at such times
as the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, provide the same may be
certified to the County Clerk for collection as provided for the collection of
other special assessments.
(2005 Code, § 3-104)
§ 3-105 CONNECTIONS NOT ADJACENT TO MAINS.
   Any person desiring to be supplied by the city with water may extend in the
street copper pipe beyond the commercial main of not less than three-fourths
inch in diameter and not over two inches in diameter, when the property of such
consumer does not adjoin the street along which the commercial mains run. From
the copper extension main to the consumer’s property, the water service may be
laid with approved pipes, after securing the consent of the City Council. Such
extensions shall be limited to one household. Upon receipt or a request for a
second extension in the same area, or a request to tap onto said initial
extension, a new water extension district shall be formed. All extension
service shall be paid for and maintained by the consumers. The approval of such
extensions does not exempt such customer from being assessed in future water
extension or improvement districts. All of such pipe which may be laid in any
street shall belong to and become the property of the city. Such extension main
or small pipe shall be provided with a stopcock which shall be placed on the
curb line of the street in which the commercial main is laid. If the line of
small pipe shall cross any alley, the same shall be supplied with a stopcock in
the alley, and upon failure of any such person to pay the rent, or any rent
that may be due and unpaid, or unprovided for, the person putting in the pipe
shall pay the water rent of all parties who are thus supplied, or the Utilities
Superintendent will immediately shut off the water supply where the supply of a
person refusing to pay cannot be shut off separately. If the supply can be shut
off separately, then the supply shall only be cut off from those who refuse or
neglect to pay. The city shall have the right, if it elects to do so, to place
and control a stopcock, if it is deemed advisable, on the property supplied
with water by the pipes provided for in this section and have access to the
same at any time, this being a part of the contract with such consumer.
(2005 Code, § 3-105)
§ 3-106 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An excavation permit must be obtained from the city for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage.
   (B)   No person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley or
sidewalk open at any time without a barricade and, during the night, warning
lights. After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall
be restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or
sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the
Street Department shall have the duty to finish or correct the work and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer. All installations or
repairs of pipes require inspections as are required by the Plumbing Code
adopted in
Ch. 9 of this code of ordinances. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify
the Plumbing Inspector at the time the work is ready for each inspection.
   (C)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Plumbing Code; provided that, the said rules, regulations
and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 3-107 STOP AND WASTE COCKS REQUIRED.
   There shall be a stop and waste cock attached to every water supply pipe at
a point in the building so as to allow the water to be shut off and the pipes
to be emptied in freezing weather.
(2005 Code, § 3-107)
§ 3-108 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All water service connected with the water service system of the city
shall have placed thereon a water meter of a type and kind to be approved by
the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   No person other than the Utility Superintendent, his or her assistants
or a duly authorized plumber shall be allowed to set meters and make the
connections to the water service of the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-108)
§ 3-109 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The city will provide one water service tap not larger than one inch to a
property, at a cost set by resolution of the governing body, any replacement,
additional or layer services requested by the property owner will be installed
to property at a cost of material and labor to the customer. No person other
than the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent shall tap
the water main. The customer shall pay a water service fee in such sum as may
be set by resolution of the governing body; provided that, a tap for a three-
quarter inch pipe shall be deemed to be the minimum or base tap fee. Non-
residents shall pay such tap fees and installation charges in such sums as the
Utilities Superintendent, pursuant to resolution of the governing body, shall
in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory
within the corporate limits may be made by means of water extension districts.
(2005 Code, § 3-109)
§ 3-110 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   All persons taking water from the city shall keep their own service pipes,
stopcocks and apparatus in good repair and protect them from frost at their own
expense and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. When leaks occur in
service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water service until
the leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the
Utilities Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in repair by the
municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they
shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense of the
municipality; provided that, if the customer permits or allows a water meter to
be damaged, injured or destroyed through his or her own recklessness,
carelessness or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of the
customer any reasonable number of times; provided that, if the test shows the
water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall be
borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time and, if said meter is found to be beyond
repair, the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on
the customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a consumer’s
meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during
the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding year; provided that, if no such basis
for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any
person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to divert
water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said meter,
or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately.
(2005 Code, § 3-110)
§ 3-111 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department.
   (B)   All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of
the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the municipality on the account of the Water Department.
   (D)   He or she shall faithfully account for, and pay to the Municipal
Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one with the Municipal Clerk and keeping the
other on file in the Water Department’s official records.
(2005 Code, § 3-111)
§ 3-112 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and upon receipt. All water meters of customers of
water furnished by the city shall be read or caused to be read at least monthly
by the Utilities Superintendent when weather permits. In the event weather
prohibits meter reading, usage shall be estimated and adjusted in accordance
with later meter readings. The Utilities Department shall charge and collect
from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last examination
together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Utilities
Department. It shall be the duty of each customer of the Utilities Department
to pay his or her bills by one of the methods prescribed by the Utilities
Department. Bills shall be due on the date mailed and shall be payable for 15
days thereafter, at which time such bills shall become delinquent. Bills not
paid after 30 days from mailing may be assessed a penalty charge in an amount
set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 3-112)
§ 3-113 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1
of each year to report to the governing body a list of all delinquent unpaid
accounts due for water together with a description of the premises upon which
the same was used. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the
governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk
to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 3-113)
§ 3-114 SINGLE PREMISES.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a
building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a
tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the
service pipe so that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing
through said meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(2005 Code, § 3-114)
§ 3-115 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(2005 Code, § 3-115)
§ 3-116 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(2005 Code, § 3-116)
§ 3-117 PRIVATE WELLS.
   No person or organization shall drill a private water well or any test hole
that would penetrate the water table without first obtaining a permit from the
Department of Utilities. Any well drilled and operated pursuant to such permit
shall comply with the Minimum Standards for Private Water Wells, as recommended
by the state’s Department of Health.
(2005 Code, § 3-117)
§ 3-118 PLACEMENT OF HYDRANTS, FOUNTAINS AND THE LIKE.
   No hydrant, except for a public drinking fountain, shall be placed within
the limits of any street and no drinking fountain shall be erected for general
use which has openings by which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
(2005 Code, § 3-118)
§ 3-119 CONNECTIONS FOR PRIVATE FIREFIGHTING PURPOSES.
   If any consumer or business who are regular consumers of water from the
water system of the city wish to lay large pipes with hydrants and hose
couplings to be used only in case of fire, he, she or they will be permitted to
connect with street mains at his, her or their own expense upon application to
the City Council and the Utilities Superintendent, and under his, her or its
directions will be allowed the use of water for fire purposes only free of
charge.
(2005 Code, § 3-119)
§ 3-120 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   Scope and purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the
public water supply system of the city from the possibility of contamination by
isolating real or potential sources of contamination or pollution which may
backflow into the public water supply system. This section provides for the
creation and maintenance of a continuing program of cross-connection control
which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of the potable water supply system.
   (B)   Responsibilities and enforcement.
      (1)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall be responsible for the
implementation of the backflow prevention program as outlined within this
section. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Utilities, hereinafter
known as the Superintendent of Utilities, or any person designated by him or
her, an approved backflow prevention device is required for the public safety
of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Utilities shall give
notice in writing to the consumer to install said device at each recommended
location. The Superintendent, or his or her designated representative, shall
inspect and approve all installations of the required backflow prevention
devices. The costs for purchasing, installing and maintaining a backflow
prevention device shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the consumer.
The installation of backflow prevention devices, except for outlet fixture
vacuum breakers, shall be by a licensed plumber. The installation of backflow
prevention devices for lawn sprinkler systems may be by installers registered
with the city. Initial and annual testing is required of all double check
valves, pressure vacuum breakers and reduced pressure zone devices and shall be
performed by a State Department of Health certified Grade 6 water operator at
the expense of the consumer. Note: annual inspections are not required for lawn
sprinkler system backflow devices. If deemed necessary by the Superintendent of
Utilities that maintenance or repairs are necessary, the owner shall be
contacted and issued an order to make all necessary repairs or maintenance. The
owner shall complete all maintenance or repairs within 30 days; if not, the
owner shall be considered in violation of this section and will be subject to
disconnection of the service as provided in §
3-104 of this article.
      (2)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection
containing cross-connections to a public water supply system or a consumer’s
potable water supply system unless such cross- connections are abated or
controlled in accordance with this rule, and as required by the laws and
regulations of the state’s Department of Health.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, whenever the Superintendent of
Utilities is to make any decision or interpretation, or whenever reference is
made to the fact that the Superintendent of Utilities is to exercise judgment,
such decision, interpretation or judgment shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this section, and any other applicable provisions of the city
code, and state and federal law.
      (4)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall have the right to enter a
premises served by the public water supply at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
premises. In order to inspect a premises, the Superintendent of Utilities shall
give notice setting forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten
days in advance. If the consumer cannot make the premises available for
inspection at the proposed date and time, the consumer shall contact the
Superintendent of Utilities and arrange for another date and time for
inspection. If the Superintendent of Utilities and the consumer cannot agree on
a date and time, then the Superintendent of Utilities shall treat the premises
as if no appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed and, in such
event, the consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow
prevention device as required in division (D) below. In the event that the
Superintendent of Utilities determines that an inspection of the premises is
necessary, he or she may obtain an inspection warrant in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835.
      (5)   The consumer, as defined in these regulations, if requested by the
Superintendent of Utilities, shall designate an individual or individuals, who
shall be responsible for contact and communications with the Superintendent of
Utilities in matters relating to system alteration and construction, monitoring
and sampling, maintenance, operation, record keeping and reporting, as required
by law and these regulations. Any change in assigned responsibilities or
designated individuals shall be promptly reported to the Superintendent of
Utilities.
      (6)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct or
cause to be conducted, periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her
premises as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections in the consumer’s water supply system. The Superintendent of
Utilities shall have the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic
surveys and investigations, of a frequency as determined by the Director, of
water use practices within a consumer’s premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross-connections to the consumer’s water supply system
through which contaminates or pollutants could backflow into the public water
supply system. The Superintendent of Utilities may conduct these surveys to
provide information in determining what level of protection will be necessary
to protect the public health and safety.
      (7)   On request by the Superintendent of Utilities, the consumer shall
furnish the Superintendent of Utilities information on water use practices
within the consumer’s premises. If the consumer refuses to submit the proper
information or to cooperate in obtaining the proper information, the
Superintendent of Utilities shall treat the premises as if no appropriate
cross-connection survey has been completed and, in such event, the consumer
shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as required
in this section.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening of any pipe or faucet supplying water to
a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the said
receptacle. An approved AIR GAP shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle
and, in no case, less than one inch.
      ANTISIPHON VACUUM BREAKER. A device which restricts the backflow of water
into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is broken by
allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
      APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method has been accepted by the
authority having jurisdiction as being suitable for the intended use.
      AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply system available to the premises
other than the public water supply system and includes the water supplied by
such system. These AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS may include water from another
owner’s public water supply system; polluted or contaminated water, process
fluids; used water; or other sources of water of which the owner of the public
water supply system does not have sanitary control.
      BACKFLOW or BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures
or substances into the water distribution system from any other source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. Devices such as an
“approved air gap”, “double check-valve assembly”, “anti-siphon vacuum breaker”
or a “reduced pressure principal device” can be used which have been approved
by the authority having jurisdiction.
      CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
      CONSUMER’S WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system, located on the
consumer’s premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
supply system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A fire suppression system is also considered a CONSUMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or
waste to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the public health
through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby contamination due to backflow
or backsiphonage can occur.
      DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk
to health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, check valves including 100% closing shutoff valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the
water-tightness of each check valve, except where required by the state’s Fire
Marshal, C.S.Y. valves will be allowed.
      HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, a real or potential danger to the health and well-being
of the consumer.
      INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous uses of two sources of water.
      LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained the appropriate license from
the Mayor and Council to perform plumbing related work within the limits of the
city’s jurisdiction.
      MANAGER. The City Administrator or authorized representative.
      NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use,
or which does not meet the requirements of the state’s Department of Health.
      OWNER. The person delivering water through a public water system. The
OWNER is the city operating through the Utilities Department.
      PERSON. The state, any political subdivision, public or private
corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity. When the term “he”,
or “his”, is used, it shall mean any male or female person.
      PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connecting in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by air-gap separation or
backflow prevention devices.
      POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance (organic,
inorganic or biological) that degrades the quality of water to a degree which
does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health, but which
does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for any desired use.
      POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically
objectionable or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the
public water supply system or the consumer’s water supply system.
      POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s Department of
Health.
      PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A backflow prevention device consisting of a
spring loaded check valve, a spring loaded popper air opening, upstream and
downstream resilient shutoff valves and two properly located test cocks.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water supply system designed and intended
to provide potable water to a designated consumer. The water supply shall
include the water supply source and distribution piping network. The WATER
SUPPLY SOURCE is defined as any artificial or natural accumulation of water
used to supply the potable water system. The distribution piping network
includes all piping, pumping and treatment devices used to convey an adequate
quality and quantity of potable water to the consumer.
      REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between two check valves.
During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between
these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of
either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the
atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at
less than the supply pressure. The unit must include 100% closing shutoff ball
valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the
SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
      SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage
to the physical properties of the public’s or the consumer’s water supply
system.
      USED WATER. Any water supplied by the public water supply system to a
consumer’s water supply system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water supplier.
   (D)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between
the service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s
water supply system when, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Utilities, a
health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists or has the potential to
exist in the future.
      (2)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed when the
following conditions are found by the Superintendent of Utilities to exist:
         (a)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as
to create an actual or potential hazard to a public water supply system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from a public water supply system which are no longer under
the sanitary control of the owner;
         (b)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Utilities, are not correctable, or there exist
intricate plumbing arrangements which made it impracticable to determine
whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (c)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished; or
         (d)   Premises having more than one customer service connection which
could constitute a potential cross-connection.
      (3)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities unless the Superintendent of Utilities determines that no health,
pollution or system hazard to the public water supply system exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
         (b)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, film development
facilities;
         (c)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
         (d)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (e)   Chemical plants;
         (f)   Metal de-greasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye
and metal processing or productions;
         (g)   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (h)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
         (i)   Lawn irrigation systems, swimming pools and greenhouses;
         (j)   Laundries and dry cleaners;
         (k)   Packing houses;
         (l)   Power plants;
         (m)   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries, hospitals;
         (n)   Rendering plants;
         (o)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers
or cooling systems;
         (p)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, pet grooming, salons;
         (q)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
         (r)   Fire suppression systems;
         (s)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height;
         (t)   Schools, universities, college; and
         (u)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross- connection.
   (E)   Type of protection required.
      (1)   The type of protection required under this section shall depend on
the degree of hazard that exists as follows:
         (a)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where a public water
supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system
hazard or health hazard;
         (b)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where
a public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could
cause a pollution hazard;
         (c)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device shall be installed at the service connection where there exists a
plumbing hazard; and
         (d)   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey of the consumer’s potable water system, a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed at the
service connection.
      (2)   An approved “anti-siphon vacuum breaker” may be used as a backflow
prevention device where it is not subjected to back pressures. This device
shall not be used for applications where water flow is expected to be
continuous for one or more hours. The device shall be installed ahead of the
potential source of contamination on the discharge side of the last control
valve. It shall be placed at least six inches above the highest point reached
by any water passing through the potential source of contamination. Typically,
this type of device is used for such equipment as water cooled compressors or
other water cooled equipment. In cases where downstream valves are used,
pressure vacuum breakers will be required.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   Any approved backflow prevention device required by this section
shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Superintendent
of Utilities. The consumer, at his or her sole expense, shall obtain and
install said approved backflow prevention device(s) within 90 days of notice
and as ordered by the Superintendent of Utilities.
      (2)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Superintendent
of Utilities prior to the effective date of this rule and which are properly
maintained shall, except for inspection, testing and maintenance requirements,
be excluded from the requirements of this section, but only if Superintendent
of Utilities determines that the devices will satisfactorily protect the public
water supply system. One hundred percent closing shutoff valves for testing
shall be provided on existing backflow prevention devices, if necessary for
proper testing by the Superintendent of Utilities. If deemed necessary by the
Superintendent of Utilities that an existing backflow prevention device
requires replacement, it shall be replaced with an approved backflow prevention
device.
   (G)   Booster pump, cut-off device.
      (1)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to
any premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order. The Superintendent of
Utilities may require testing at any time if suspected that a problem exists
with the device.
   (H)   Yard hydrants.
      (1)   The installation of new or replacement yard hydrants, where water
is available or accessible for drinking of culinary purposes and which have
drip openings below ground surface, is prohibited unless such hydrants are
equipped with an approved device to prevent entrance of ground water into
chambers connected with the water supply.
      (2)   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which could be used by the consumer to
provide water to mix pesticides, fertilizer or other chemicals, for direct use
or aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an anti-siphon
vacuum breaker.
      (3)   All underground lawn and garden sprinkler systems shall be equipped
with an approved backflow prevention device.
   (I)   Fire suppression system.
      (1)   All proposed installations of fire suppressions systems shall be
reviewed by the Superintendent of Utilities to determine the appropriate type
of backflow prevention device(s) required.
      (2)   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an antifreeze
solution shall use a pharmaceutical grade antifreeze. The consumer shall
provide to the Superintendent of Utilities a certification identifying the type
of pharmaceutical grade antifreeze which shall be used. A double check valve
backflow prevention device shall be installed in an approved manner.
      (3)   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppressions systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross- connections.
      (4)   All existing fire suppressions systems shall meet the requirements
of subsections (I)(2) or (I)(3) above, whichever applies. An inspection by a
certified fire suppression specialist shall be done at the expense of the
consumer. If it cannot be certified that only pharmaceutical grade antifreezes
have been used, then a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed as approved by the Superintendent of Utilities. This also
shall be done at the expense of the consumer.
      (5)   In the event cross-connections, such as those found in using
auxiliary water supply systems or in providing other water additives such as
foaming agents are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression
system, then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be
installed in an approved manner.
   (J)   Violations.
      (1)   In order to protect the health and/or safety of consumers or of the
general public, the Superintendent of Utilities shall deny or discontinue,
after notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein:
         (a)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is
not installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent of
Utilities;
         (b)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or by-passed;
         (c)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
         (d)   A low pressure cut-off required by this section not installed
and maintained in working order; or
         (e)   The Superintendent of Utilities is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall immediately deny or
discontinue, without notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein a severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an
immediate threat to the safety of the public water system. The Superintendent
of Utilities shall notify the consumer within 24 hours of said denial or
discontinuation of service.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities.
   (K)   Approval standards.
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a model
and size approved by the Superintendent of Utilities. The term APPROVED
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE shall mean a device that has been manufactured in
full conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Associations (AWWA) entitled: AWWA 4506-69 Standards for Reduced Pressure
Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices and by the
American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) entitled:
         (a)   No. 001 Pipe Applied Atmospheric Type Vacuum Breakers - ANSI
Approved - 1982 - Revised, 1988;
         (b)   No. 1011 Hose Connection Vacuum Breakers - ANSI Approved 1982;
         (c)   No. 1012 Backflow Preventer/Intermediate Atmospheric Vent -
1978;
         (d)   No. 1013 Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Preventer - Revised
1988;
         (e)   No. 1015 Double Check Backflow Prevention Assembly - Revised
1988;
         (f)   No. 1019 Wall Hydrants, Freezeless, Automatic Draining, Anti-
Backflow Types - ANSI Approve 1978;
         (g)   No. 1020 Vacuum Breakers, Anti-siphon, Pressure Type - ANSI
Approved 1982;
         (h)   No. 1024 Dual Check Valve Type Backflow Preventers - ANSI
Approved 1984 - Revised 1988;
         (i)   No. 1035 Laboratory Faucet Vacuum Breakers - ANSI Approved 1984;
and
         (j)   No. 1048 Double Check Detector Assembly Backflow Preventer -
1989.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Utilities shall keep a current list of all
approved backflow prevention devices.
      (3)   The Superintendent of Utilities may require a strainer of approved
type and size to be installed in conjunction with required backflow prevention
devices. The installation of strainers shall preclude the fouling of backflow
device(s) due to foreseen and unforeseen circumstances occurring to the water
supply system such as water main repairs, water main breaks, fires, periodic
cleaning and flushing of mains. These occurrences may cause debris such as
scale deposits and sand to flush through the mains causing fouling of backflow
device(s).
   (L)   Liability claims. The Superintendent of Utilities shall be relieved
from personal liability. The city shall hold harmless the Superintendent of
Utilities when acting in good faith and without malice, from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to any person or property as a result
of any act required or authorized by this chapter or by reason of any act or
omission of the Superintendent of Utilities in the discharge his or her duties
hereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provision of the chapter shall be
defended by the city, or the city’s insurance carrier, if any, through final
determination of such proceeding.
   (M)   Conflict, repeal. Only so much of this article, which includes this
section, and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed.
   (N)   Separability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase of this section shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this section, which
shall remain in full force and effect, and to that end, the provisions of this
section are hereby declared to be severable.
   (O)   Force and effect. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and publication as provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 3-120)
§ 3-121 USE OF HOSES.
   No hose shall be used unless water is furnished through a meter. The city
may suspend the use of fountains, yard sprinkler systems and hoses for
sprinkling yards and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the Utilities
Superintendent, the public exigency may require.
(2005 Code, § 3-121)
§ 3-122 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the city’s Water Department.
(2005 Code, § 3-122)
§ 3-123 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application.
   (B)   If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall, at once, inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(2005 Code, § 3-123)
§ 3-124 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(2005 Code, § 3-124)
§ 3-125 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Utilities Department. They
shall have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such
regulations.
(2005 Code, § 3-125)
§ 3-126 RETURNS BY PLUMBERS OF WORK DONE.
   Within 48 hours after completing any attachment or connection relating to
the water system of the city, any plumber or pipe fitter shall make full
returns of the ordinary or special use for which water is designated to be
applied under any permit granted from the office of the city, with a
description of all apparatus and arrangements for using water in every case and
any other particulars that may be called for. The water will not be turned onto
any premises until complete returns have been made by the plumbers.
(2005 Code, § 3-126)
§ 3-127 EXCAVATIONS IN FROZEN GROUND; POLLUTING WATER.
   No person shall make excavation in any street or highway within six feet of
any laid water pipe while the ground is frozen or dig up or uncover so as to
expose to the frost any water pipe of the city, except under the direction of
the city. No person shall place in, near or around any of the water pipes,
mains or hydrants of the city water system any dirt, filth, impure substance
whatever or any substance or fluid which would render the water impure or
unpalatable.
(2005 Code, § 3-127)
§ 3-128 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the city’s Water Department. No person may deposit anything in
a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 3-128)
§ 3-129 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipe fitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the said system until such plumber or pipe fitter shall have first
procured a license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done
in the manner required by the city’s Plumbing Code. The said licensed plumber
shall be at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the Plumbing
Inspector and it shall be further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any
defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(2005 Code, § 3-129)
§ 3-130 TIME.
   Unless otherwise authorized by the Utilities Superintendent, all taps or
plumbing work done on or to the municipal water system shall be done between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(2005 Code, § 3-130)
§ 3-131 WELLHEAD PROTECTION.
   The purpose of the wellhead protection plan is to describe the source of the
city’s drinking water, provide information about the potential contaminants
(threats) that could impact the community water supply, and to detail the steps
that the city has taken in order to protect drinking water for the citizens of
the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-131)
§ 3-132 DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   To address the city’s short-term water shortage problems a series of stages
based on conditions of supply and demand with accompanying triggers, goals and
actions. Each stage is more stringent in water use than the previous stage
since water supply conditions are more deteriorated. The Mayor of the city is
authorized by ordinance to implement the appropriate conservation measures when
a condition is met in each stage.
   (A)   Stage 1: water watch.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   The city storage has fallen below 85% capacity;
         (b)   Ground water levels have fallen five feet below the normal
seasonal level; and/or
         (c)   When the calculated water system demand equals 60% of the
calculated water system capacity.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public on water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the water supply
system.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city will make occasional news releases to the local media
describing present conditions and indicating the water supply outlook for the
upcoming season.
         (b)   Previous months summaries of precipitation, temperature, water
levels and storage will be made public at the beginning of each month.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city wells will be cleaned and flushed to maintain them at
their most efficient condition.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         (c)   System pressure will be maintained below 80 pounds per square
inch.
         (d)   The city will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      (5)   Regulation actions. The public will be asked to curtail some
outdoor water vise and to make efficient use of indoor water (i.e., wash full
loads, take short showers, don’t let faucets run and the like).
   (B)   Stage 2: water warning.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   The city storage has fallen below 70% capacity;
         (b)   Ground water levels have fallen ten feet below the normal
seasonal level; and/or
         (c)   Water usage is exceeding 80% of total pumping capacity of the
system wells for more than three consecutive days.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city will make weekly news releases to the local media
describing present conditions and indicating the water supply outlook for the
upcoming week.
         (b)   Previous week summaries of precipitation, temperature, water
levels and storage will be made public each Thursday.
         (c)   Water conservation articles will be provided to the local
newspaper.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Pumping of wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (d)   The city will curtail its water usage including watering of city
grounds and washing of vehicles.
      (5)   Regulation actions.
         (a)   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on city
residents. Residents with odd-numbered addresses will water on odd days, even
addresses will water on even days.
         (b)   Outdoor water use including lawn watering and car washing will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Refilling of swimming pools will be allowed one day a week after
sunset.
         (d)   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used
in the winter will be imposed.
         (e)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (C)   Stage 3: water emergency triggers.
      (1)   Conditions. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   The city storage has fallen below 50% capacity;
         (b)   Ground water levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
level;
         (c)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens; and/or
         (d)   Water usage is exceeding 90% of total pumping capacity of the
system wells for more than three consecutive days.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 25%.
      (3)   Education action.
         (a)   The city will make daily news releases to the local media
describing present conditions and indicating the water supply outlook for the
next day.
         (b)   Previous days summaries of precipitation, temperature, water
levels and storage will be made available to the public each day.
         (c)   The city will hold public meetings to discuss the emergency, the
status of the city water supply and further actions which need to be taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   System pressure will be maintained at 60 pounds per square inch.
         (d)   Pumping of wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (e)   The city will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, the state or the federal government.
      (5)   Regulation actions.
         (a)   Outdoor water use will be banned.
         (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
(Ord. 2353, passed 3-19-2013)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-201   Definitions
   
3-202   Rates and charges; operation and funding; “consumer” defined,
classification; user charge review; optional measuring devices; special rates
allowed; billing and payment; delinquent charges, lien; disposition and use of
funds
   
3-203   Compliance with article and the like
   
3-204   Public sewers required; unlawful deposit of wastes; unlawful discharge
of untreated sewage; cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited; mandatory
hook-up
   
3-205   Installations; duty of Superintendent; inspections; proper license
required; responsibility for employees; application for permits; permits to be
kept at work site; use of water from fire hydrants during construction
   
3-206   Private sewage disposal; when applicable; permit required, fee; permit,
when effective; inspections; specifications; maintenance; additional
requirements
   
3-207   Building sewer installation; permit required; expense; use of existing
sewers; materials, method of construction; excavations and backfill; existing
utility lines; elevation; connection to public sewers; unlawful connection;
inspections; traps and screening; sufficiency of water flow required;
protection of public property restored
   
3-208   Prohibited discharges; storm water, surface water, ground water,
cooling water and process water
   
3-209   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; flammable, toxic, corrosive and
obstructive substances; preliminary treatment; specific prohibitions as
determined by Superintendent; rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge
rate or use fee surcharge; special exception permitted; use fee surcharge
   
3-210   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
3-211   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
3-212   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance; method
   
3-213   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
3-214   Compliance with article; inspections generally; inspections; injury
liability; easements
   
3-215   Violation; notice and liability; penal provision
   
3-216   Municipal powers
§ 3-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive; the term SHALL is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Holdrege, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the city or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(2005 Code, § 3-201)
§ 3-202 RATES AND CHARGES; OPERATION AND FUNDING; “CONSUMER” DEFINED,
CLASSIFICATION; USER CHARGE REVIEW; OPTIONAL MEASURING DEVICES; SPECIAL RATES
ALLOWED; BILLING AND PAYMENT; DELINQUENT CHARGES, LIEN; DISPOSITION AND USE OF
FUNDS.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Utilities Superintendent. For the purpose of paying the cost of extending
and improving the sewerage plant of the sewerage system of the city, for the
purpose of paying the principal and interest of any bonds issued for such
purposes, for the purpose of creating reserves for any of such purposes and for
no other purpose there is hereby established a sanitary sewer use charge
against each lot, parcel of land or premises served by such sanitary sewerage
system or which may otherwise discharge sewage and industrial waste, either
directly or indirectly, into such sanitary sewerage system or any part thereof.
The revenue from the sewer use charge, based on actual use, shall be known as
the Sewer Revenue Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the sewer system and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the system subject
to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-202)
   (B)   For the purposes hereof, the word CONSUMER shall mean all users of the
sanitary sewerage system of the city, including all persons whose premises are
served thereby, all owners and tenants of real estate and buildings connected
with such sanitary system or served thereby and all users of such system who in
any way use the same or discharge sanitary sewage, industrial waste water or
other liquid, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system
of the city. The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the city’s Sewer Department; provided that, such classifications
are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group
of consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental
Protection Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition.
(2005 Code, § 3-203)
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council shall review, at least annually, the
user charge system and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the
following:
         (a)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
         (b)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
         (c)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the
costs of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
      (2)   Rates shall be set by ordinance and at least three copies of the
schedules currently in effect shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk for the use and examination of the public. In addition to other elements
of the total user charge system, the rate schedule on file with the Municipal
Clerk shall provide for the following surcharges.
         (a)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels
(BOD, SS and the like), etc.) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic
strength wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a
formula with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant. (See
App. B of 40 C.F.R. § 35.900.)
         (b)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each
user discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing
the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from such
discharge.
(2005 Code, § 3-204)
   (D)   Commercial and industrial consumers under this article may, at their
option and expense and with the approval of the Utilities Superintendent,
install sewage flow measuring devices to measure all sewage discharged into the
sanitary sewerage system. These consumers shall be billed at the regular
commercial and industrial rate using the sewage flow as measured in lieu of
water meter readings. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the right to
remove, repair and reinstall all such sewage flow measuring devices at the
expense of the consumer.
(2005 Code, § 3-205)
   (E)   Where, in the judgment of the City Council, by reason of special
conditions, the application of the use charges set forth in this article would
be inequitable or unfair to either the city or the user a special rate may be
established by contract or by resolution, duly passed and approved by the City
Council. To assist the City Council in determining whether or not special
conditions exist, any consumer shall, upon the request of the Utilities
Superintendent provide a satisfactory means of measuring water consumption and/
or the sewage flow from the consumer and obtaining a representative sample of
sewage.
(2005 Code, § 3-206)
   (F)   At least once each month, the Utilities Superintendent shall cause a
charge to be made upon all users of the city sanitary sewage system. At least
once each month, the City Clerk or Collector shall cause statements for sewer
usage to be sent to each user at the address where used or at such other
address as may be known to the City Clerk or Collector, at the same time that
bills are rendered for city water service. Each user shall pay the City Clerk
or Collector for sewer usage. Such statements shall be due on the date mailed
and shall be delinquent 15 days thereafter. Whenever any sewer use charge
levied by this article is not paid before it becomes delinquent, the water
service of such consumer may be discontinued. Any termination shall comply with
the notice and procedures of §
3-131.
(2005 Code, § 3-207)
   (G)   All sewer use charges prescribed by this article shall be a lien upon
the premises and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used,
and if not paid when due such charge shall be certified to the City Treasurer
and may be recovered by the city in an action at law from the owner or the
person requesting the service, or may be certified to the tax assessor and
assessed against the premises served and collected or returned in the same
manner as other municipal taxes are certified, assessed, collected and
returned.
(2005 Code, § 3-208)
   (H)   (1)   The sewer use charge made pursuant to this article shall be
sufficient at all times to pay the interest and principal of the revenue bonds
issued on the sanitary sewerage system of the city and for the operation and
maintenance of the sanitary sewerage system and disposal plant. All money
collected for such sewer use shall be set aside and placed in a separate fund
designated the “Sewer Revenue Fund” and shall be used only for the purpose of
paying for the reasonable expense of operation and maintenance of the sanitary
sewerage system and disposal plant, for paying the interest and principal of
the revenue bonds issued for such purposes and for the purpose of creating
reserves for any of such purposes. Said Sewer Revenue Fund shall have as a
minimum two primary accounts:
         (a)   An O&M account with provision for carry-over of the fiscal year-
end balance to meet the overall O&M costs in the subsequent fiscal year; and
         (b)   A non-lapsing sinking fund for replacement costs which accrues
funds through deposits made at least annually from OM&R use charge revenues.
The deposits shall provide adequate revenues to meet the “replacement” needs of
the treatment works over its service life and shall be used for no other
purpose. Fiscal year-end balances in the non-lapsing sinking fund will be
carried over to the same fund in the subsequent year.
      (2)   REPLACEMENT is defined as expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
(2005 Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 3-203 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall make sewer connections, lay sewer drains or do any sewer
work covered by this article without complying with the rules of the Utilities
Superintendent, the provisions of this article,
Ch. 9 of this code of ordinances and any other ordinance of the city pertaining
to sewers.
(2005 Code, § 3-210)
§ 3-204 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE
OF UNTREATED SEWAGE; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED; MANDATORY
HOOK-UP.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(2005 Code, § 3-211)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(2005 Code, § 3-212)
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(2005 Code, § 3-213)
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
municipality, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 60
days after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer
is within 200 feet (61 meters) of the property line.
(2005 Code, § 3-214)
§ 3-205 INSTALLATIONS; DUTY OF SUPERINTENDENT; INSPECTIONS; PROPER LICENSE
REQUIRED; RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES; APPLICATION FOR PERMITS; PERMITS TO BE
KEPT AT WORK SITE; USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent, under the direction of the
City Council, to prescribe the location, arrangement, form, material and
construction of every private drain or sewer emptying into the sanitary
sewerage system of the city and to determine the manner and plan of such
connection. The work of constructing the same shall be in all cases subject to
the superintendence and control of the City Council through its authorized
agents and shall be executed strictly in accordance with its orders, rules and
regulations.
(2005 Code, § 3-215)
   (B)   (1)   There shall be three inspections of sewer work as follows:
         (a)   When the sewer is laid and jointed and connected up, and before
it is covered over;
         (b)   For the soil, waste and vent pipes in accordance with this
article and applicable Plumbing Codes; and
         (c)   For the whole system of plumbing when completed and the water
turned on.
      (2)   The whole system of inside drains, soil, waste and vent pipe shall
be filled with water and required to stand at least 12 hours without loss of
water. The Inspector shall be notified by the plumber when the work is ready
for inspection and the plumber shall prepare the whole system of plumbing in
such building for the Inspector to make proper tests of the same.
(2005 Code, § 3-216)
   (C)   No person shall, engage in or conduct the business of sewer connection
and house drainage; excavate any trenches for sewer pipe; open, uncover or in
any manner make connection with or lay any sewer drain; or attach to, modify or
repair any appurtenances to sewer connections with any sewer in the streets or
alleys or with any private sewer or drain in the city without holding a proper
license for such work. This section shall not apply to persons under special
contract with the city for construction, extension or repair of sewers.
(2005 Code, § 3-217)
   (D)   All licensed plumbers shall be held responsible for all acts of their
agents or employees done by virtue of such license. Willful or ignorant
mistakes of employees shall not be regarded as sufficient reasons for
exonerating plumbers from a suspension of their licenses; and they will be held
to a strict accountability for all errors or mistakes of their employees while
in the legitimate pursuit of their occupation as plumbers.
(2005 Code, § 3-218)
   (E)   Applications for permits to connect with the storm drainage system,
sanitary sewerage system of the city or private sewage disposal systems shall
be made on the application blank by the owner of the property it is desired to
drain. Applications shall be accompanied by a clear and exact description of
the premises and of the character and location of the drains it is proposed to
put in place together with the number and location of all water closets, sinks,
bath tubs, receiving basins and other sanitary fixtures it is designed to
connect with the same, which description shall be left and placed on file in
the office of the Inspector for future reference.
(2005 Code, § 3-219)
   (F)   No house, drain, storm drain or private sewer will be allowed to be
put in place, nor any of the work in connection therewith commenced or
prosecuted, unless the permits granted by the city in connection therewith are
in possession of the licensed plumber at the site of the proposed work, or one
of his or her employees engaged thereon.
(2005 Code, § 3-220)
   (G)   Plumbers working under this article shall not use water from the fire
hydrants, unless a special permit for the use of the same has been obtained
from the Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 3-221)
§ 3-206 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE; PERMIT,
WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS; SPECIFICATIONS; MAINTENANCE; ADDITIONAL
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions hereof, the building sewer may be connected to a private sewage
disposal system. A private domestic wastewater disposal system may not be
constructed within the city’s wellhead protection area or the sewer service
area until the owner has completed the requirements of NDEQ Title 124, Ch. 4,
Site Evaluation, has been completed and a copy submitted to the utility
granting such permission. At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private waste-water disposal system, as provided herein, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge
and filled with suitable material.
(2005 Code, § 3-222)
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Inspector.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Inspector. Domestic
systems that generate over 1,000 gallons per day of wastewater, home(s) of ten
or more bedrooms and all non-domestic generators must obtain a permit from NDEQ
before a city permit will be issued.
(2005 Code, § 3-223)
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Inspector. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Inspector.
(2005 Code, § 3-224)
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of the NDEQ for design, operation and
maintenance of septic tank systems or lagoons. No permit shall be issued for
any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the location does not meet the requirements established by
NDEQ Title 124 requirements. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(2005 Code, § 3-225)
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
(2005 Code, § 3-226)
   (F)   No statement contained herein shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(2005 Code, § 3-227)
§ 3-207 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED; EXPENSE; USE OF EXISTING
SEWERS; MATERIALS, METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION; EXCAVATIONS AND BACKFILL; EXISTING
UTILITY LINES; ELEVATION; CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION;
INSPECTIONS; TRAPS AND SCREENING; SUFFICIENCY OF WATER FLOW REQUIRED;
PROTECTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY RESTORED.
   (A)   (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Inspector.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $5 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $5 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the municipality at the time the application is filed.
(2005 Code, § 3-228)
   (B)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(2005 Code, § 3-229)
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this article. All costs and expense incurred by examination and
testing shall be borne by the owner.
(2005 Code, § 3-230)
   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(2005 Code, § 3-231)
   (E)   (1)   All building and private sewers shall be constructed in open
trenches carefully excavated in the proper direction, and to such width and
depth as may be necessary to secure the correct alignment and faithful
execution of the work which shall be vigorously prosecuted, so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the traveling public. If the sides of the
trenches will not maintain their vertical position, they shall be sheeted,
shored and strongly braced. Prior to commencing the excavation in the public
right-of-way, a permit from the city shall be obtained all the materials
composing the sidewalks, roadway, paving and other similar improvements shall
be carefully removed, and piled in some convenient place, and in such position
as will ensure their safety, and where they will be out of street traffic. The
material taken from out of the trenches shall likewise be so disposed as not to
seriously interfere with the legitimate use of the sidewalks and roadways.
      (2)   After sewer and drain laying work has been finished and properly
inspected the backfilling shall be done without delay, and as fast as deposited
in the trench, it shall be thoroughly puddled and tamped to such an extent as
to render subsequent settlement of the surface practically impossible. The
plumber will be held strictly responsible for any disturbance or displacement
to the roadway ballasting or paving, due to his or her negligence to faithfully
conform to the requirements of this section.
(2005 Code, § 3-232)
   (F)   (1)   If water, gas or other pipes or drains are encountered in the
direct line of a sewer during its construction, the questions of carrying such
sewer under, over or around such or similar obstructions, or of doing anything
involving a deviation from the proper line of standard grade, shall only be
decided by the Superintendent.
      (2)   If gas or water mains, or other pipes or drains, are encountered
during the process of excavation for sewers, the same shall be carefully and
thoroughly protected against injury or settlement by the contractor at his or
her own expense.
      (3)   Whenever it is necessary to pass through or in any way disturb an
existing sewer in actual use, such drainage pipe or sewer shall not be
interfered with, cut through or connected in any way, without the consent of
the Superintendent. No sewer or drain shall be carried immediately above or
through a wooden drain, no matter whether the latter is in use or abandoned,
nor through unstable or perishable material of any character, unless all such
work is carefully placed upon a foundation of puddled earth, concrete or of
brick or stone masonry, of such dimensions and methods of construction as may
be directed by the Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 3-233)
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(2005 Code, § 3-234)
   (H)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight,
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Plumbing Inspector before installation.
      (2)   Whenever it is necessary to make connections between a building
sewer and the public sewer, where no junction piece was originally placed in
the public sewer adjacent to the lot, the junction piece shall be furnished by
the owner, and the same shall be put in place by a licensed plumber under
supervision of the Inspector. Under no circumstances shall plumbers or other
outside persons break into sewers for the purpose of setting junctions or
making any kind of connections whatsoever, without permission of the Inspector.
All connections to the public sewer shall be in such manner as approved by the
city.
(2005 Code, § 3-235)
   (I)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such
connection is approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of
polluted surface drainage; provided that, if responsibility can be determined,
the party responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public
sanitary sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the
polluted drainage.
(2005 Code, § 3-236)
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Inspector or his or her representative.
(2005 Code, § 3-237)
   (K)   (1)   All pipes connecting with the public sewer or laterals shall be
trapped. All pipes, except water closet pipes, shall be screened. Removing
screens, except for repairing pipes, is prohibited. In the use of water closets
only tissue paper is allowed and all other paper or material is prohibited.
      (2)   All discharge pipes leading from kitchen sinks, laundry and
stationary wash tubs, water closets and hand basins in private residences
making direct connection with the main drain without passing through any trap
shall have suitable traps.
      (3)   All stables, barns, carriage houses or garages, having a wash rack
on which wagons, carriages, automobiles, trucks or other vehicles are washed,
and connected with the city storm or sanitary sewer, shall be provided with a
sand trap with an iron syphon outlet. All sand traps shall be cleaned
frequently. No mud or sand shall be permitted to find outlet into the sewer.
(2005 Code, § 3-238)
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of premises into
which a pipe or other connection with the city sanitary sewers and drains have
been laid to permit the same to remain without adequate fixtures attached to
allow a sufficient quantity of water to be so applied as properly to carry off
all waste matter and keep the same unobstructed.
(2005 Code, § 3-239)
   (M)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
municipality.
      (2)   All openings made in the public sidewalks or roadways for the
purpose of constructing public, private and building sewers shall be surrounded
and efficiently protected at all hours by ample and sufficient barriers on
which lights shall be placed and maintained at night time, together with such
additional precautions as may be deemed necessary for the absolute protection
of the traveling public. The conditions of this section are imperative, and
plumbers will be held responsible for all claims that may arise from damages to
persons or property following neglect or violation of any of its provisions.
(2005 Code, § 3-240)
§ 3-208 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUND WATER,
COOLING WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-241)
§ 3-209 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT; REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE
RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE; SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant,
including, but not limited to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the
wastes as discharged to the public sewer;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
         (e)   Any waters or wastes having:
            1.   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the sewer system shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent; or
            4.   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage
as evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
         (d)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(2005 Code, § 3-242)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-
fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Superintendent;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters of wastes having a pH of less than 6.5 or greater
than 9.0;
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(2005 Code, § 3-243)
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this subsection (C), and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
hereof.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(2005 Code, § 3-244)
   (D)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern.
(2005 Code, § 3-249)
(Ord. 2354, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 3-210 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   All new restaurants, laundries, wash racks, vehicle service stations,
private multi-user systems, engine or machinery repair shops, and other
facilities that produce grease, grit, oil, lint or other materials which
accumulate and cause or threaten to cause stoppages or impair the efficiency of
the utilities’ sewers or threatens the safety of its employees, shall install
and maintain a grease trap, grit trap, lint trap, oil interceptor or other
appropriate device of standard design and construction to prevent excess
discharges of such material.
   (C)   All gasoline filling stations, garages, self-service automobile
washers and other public wash racks where vehicles are washed shall install
catch basins in conformity with the Plumbing Code in accordance with a permit
obtained from the city. In the event any existing premises does not have a
catch basin and sewer line servicing the facility stops up due to grit or slime
in the sewer lines, then the owner or operator of such premises shall be
required to modify these facilities to construct a catch basin as a condition
of continuing use of the system.
   (D)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s)
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
(2005 Code, § 3-245)
§ 3-211 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(2005 Code, § 3-246)
§ 3-212 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; METHOD.
   (A)   (1)   When required by the city the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes.
      (2)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(2005 Code, § 3-247)
   (B)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
      (2)   In the event no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
(2005 Code, § 3-248)
§ 3-213 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(2005 Code, § 3-250)
§ 3-214 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY; INSPECTIONS; INJURY
LIABILITY; EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(2005 Code, § 3-251)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
municipality shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
3-212(B) of this article.
(2005 Code, § 3-252)
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the municipality holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(2005 Code, § 3-253)
§ 3-215 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY; PENAL PROVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article,
except §
3-214(A) of this article, shall be served by the municipality with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(2005 Code, § 3-254)
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation.
Each 24-hour period in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 3-255)
§ 3-216 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges, industrial cost recovery charge and sewer use regulations on all
existing or future users of the system whether located inside or outside the
municipal limits.
(2005 Code, § 3-256)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-301   Operation and funding
   
3-302   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
3-303   Membership
   
3-304   Fires
   
3-305   Distant fires; equipment
   
3-306   Fighting distant fires
   
3-307   Preservation of property
   
3-308   Hose tested
   
3-309   Drills
   
3-310   Care and control of equipment
   
3-311   Inspections
   
3-312   Notice of violation
   
3-313   Impersonating firefighters
   
3-314   Mandatory assistance
   
3-315   Power of arrest
   
3-316   Fire investigation
§ 3-301 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   All volunteer fire companies which are organized according to law, in
the city, shall constitute the Fire Department of the city. The governing body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improving the Fire Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limits prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be at all times in the possession of the City
Treasurer and shall be disbursed by him or her upon order of the Chief of the
Fire Department and upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council directing the
amount of such disbursements. No obligation, except in emergencies and with
regard to minor expenditures, shall be incurred on behalf of the Fire
Department unless authorized by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have authority to appoint
members of the Fire Department, as provided by law. His or her selection shall
first be submitted to the Mayor and City Council and shall be approved by them.
All vacancies that may occur in the membership shall be filled in the same
manner. The compensation of members of the Fire Department shall be such as may
from time to time be fixed by the City Council. The exclusive control of the
Fire Department, in all matters, except expenditures, shall be in the Mayor and
the Chief of the Fire Department; provided, however, the City Council and Mayor
may enter into agreements with surrounding Fire Districts for cooperation in
providing mutual aid and protection for all residents therein.
(2005 Code, § 3-301)
§ 3-302 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The members of the Fire Department, at the time of each annual meeting
of the Department, shall recommend some person for the office of Chief of the
Fire Department and some person for the office of Assistant Chief, who on being
confirmed by the Mayor and City Council shall hold such office until their
successors are appointed and qualified. Such officers shall be subject to
removal by the Mayor and a three-fourths vote of the City Council at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, the
Assistant Chief or the foreperson of any fire company lawfully acting in his or
her stead, in all cases of fire, to take and have control of all members of the
Fire Department and of all proper means of the extinguishment of fires, the
protection of property, the preservation of order at and in the vicinity of
fires to secure the observance of all provisions of this code and other
ordinances and regulations of the city respecting fires.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep a list of all members of
the Fire Department, showing the nativity, age and occupation of each, the date
he or she entered the service and such other data as the City Council may
require. He or she shall also keep a record of all fires and fire alarms, of
their location, of the class of building or structure damaged or destroyed, of
the purpose for which it was used, of the cause of the fire, the amount of
loss, the amount of insurance and such other information as to him or her or
the City Council is important. He or she shall include in such a report a
record of any injury that may be sustained by any person on account thereof.
Such record shall at all times be available for the inspection of the Mayor and
City Council. He or she shall report to the City Council, at its first meeting
in May of each year, the operations of the Fire Department for the preceding
year, and shall include therewith an inventory of the property of the
Department. He or she shall file with the City Clerk and the Clerk of the
District Court of the County, on the first Monday of April and October of each
year, a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in their
respective companies in order to obtain the exemption provided by law. The
service records of all firefighters shall accompany their application for
honorable discharge when the same are submitted to the Mayor and City Council
for approval and signature.
(2005 Code, § 3-302)
§ 3-303 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Chief shall appoint members to the Fire Department subject to the
review and approval of the governing body. All vacancies shall be filled in
this manner. Said members shall be considered to be employees of the
municipality for the purpose of providing them with worker’s compensation and
other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a term life insurance policy
in the amount of at least $5,000 for death from any cause to age 65 and such
policy shall, at the option of the individual firefighter, be convertible to a
permanent form of life insurance at age 65; provided that, the firefighters
covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their position.
The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided by the
governing body. The members may organize themselves in any way they may decide,
subject to the review of the governing body. They may hold meetings and engage
in social activities with the approval of the governing body. The Secretary
shall, upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to
the governing body of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department. The
governing body may, for services rendered, compensate or reward any member or
members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution. All members of
the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and regulations, and shall
perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of them by the Fire Chief
or the governing body. The members of the Fire Department shall, during the
time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the powers and duties
of police officers and shall have full power and authority to arrest all
persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code, or the laws of the
state.
(2005 Code, § 3-303)
§ 3-304 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(2005 Code, § 3-304)
§ 3-305 DISTANT FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   No fire equipment shall be taken or go outside the city for the purpose of
firefighting or other purposes, except under rules and regulations prescribed
by the Chief of the Fire Department and approved by the City Council. In no
event shall equipment be used for firefighting or other purposes outside the
city to such an extent as will leave inadequate equipment immediately available
at all times for the protection of property and persons within the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-305)
§ 3-306 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor, Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief, or pursuant to a mutual aid and protection agreement
entered into by the city. In so doing, firefighters may take such fire
equipment of the municipality as may be allowed by §
3-305 of this article.
(2005 Code, § 3-306)
§ 3-307 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the city’s Fire Department shall have the power during the
time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever
it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from
fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The
said officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire and the
official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up,
or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
(2005 Code, § 3-307)
§ 3-308 HOSE TESTED.
   All fire hoses shall be pressure tested at least two times each year.
(2005 Code, § 3-308)
§ 3-309 DRILLS.
   The city’s Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least six
times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
(2005 Code, § 3-309)
§ 3-310 CARE AND CONTROL OF EQUIPMENT.
   All apparatus and appliances for the extinguishment of fire, and emergency
or disaster units belonging to the city, shall be under the direct and
immediate control of the Chief of the Fire Department and of the several fire
companies to which such appliances have been delivered. No person, under any
pretense whatsoever, shall remove any of such appliances from the place or
house where it is kept by its respective company except the members of such
company, without the order of one of the properly authorized officers of such
company, the Chief of the Fire Department or someone authorized to act in his
or her stead. It shall be the duty of the fire companies to keep all apparatus
and hose furnished by the city in a serviceable and clean condition and in such
a state as to be of immediate use in case of fire.
(2005 Code, § 3-310)
§ 3-311 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
governing body, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year in outlying districts and four times a year within
the fire limits, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing of liquified petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of said gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
(2005 Code, § 3-311)
§ 3-312 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon the finding that the municipal code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an
order upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy
to the owner’s last known post office address if the said owner is absent from
the jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the
owner, occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or
manager may, within five days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her agent, appeal the order with the governing body
requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the governing body to hear the
same within not less than five days, nor more than ten days, from the time when
the request was filed in writing with the Municipal Clerk. The governing body
shall then affirm, modify or rescind the said order as safety and justice may
require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The said order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant or manager
making the appeal.
(2005 Code, § 3-312)
§ 3-313 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate a
firefighter by wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter
for the purpose of obtaining any benefit whatsoever.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the theatrical
representation of a firefighter for bona fide entertainment purposes when there
is no intent to defraud.
(2005 Code, § 3-313)
§ 3-314 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the city’s Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 3-314)
§ 3-315 POWER OF ARREST.
   The city’s Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort or any person who conducts himself or herself
in a noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested
with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to command all
persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(2005 Code, § 3-315)
§ 3-316 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire and the state’s Fire Marshal
shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or
she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of
fires occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the state’s
Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish
him or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(2005 Code, § 3-316)
ARTICLE 4: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-401   Duties
   
3-402   Badges of police officers
   
3-403   Retirement Committee
§ 3-401 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his or her whole
time to the municipal affairs, interests of the municipality and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The Department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take
notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the municipality. The
Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and
shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for
trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special
police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the
municipality, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make
sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(2005 Code, § 3-401)
§ 3-402 BADGES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Every member of the police force shall wear a suitable badge, to be
furnished by the city, and any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall
be required to pay the costs of replacing it.
   (B)   Whenever any member shall leave the force, he or she shall immediately
deliver his or her badge to the Chief of Police.
(2005 Code, § 3-402)
§ 3-403 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The governing body hereby established the Police Department Retirement
Committee which shall supervise the general operation of the Police
Department’s retirement system. The Retirement Committee shall consist of six
members of which four members shall be selected by active paid police officers.
Two members shall be designated by the governing body. The members who are
participants in such retirement system shall have a general knowledge of
retirement plans. Members of the governing body of the municipality, active
members of the Police Department, and members of the general public may serve
on the Retirement Committee. The Committee members shall be appointed to four-
year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the term by a person
with the same representation as his or her predecessor. Members of the
Retirement Committee shall receive no salary and shall not be compensated for
expenses.
   (B)   The funds of the retirement system shall be invested by the Retirement
Committee. The municipality or Committee shall contract with an insurance
company, trust company or other financial institution including, but not
limited to, brokerage houses, investment managers, savings and loan
association, banks, credit unions or Farmers Home Administration or Veterans’
Administration approved lenders. Such funds shall be invested pursuant to the
policies established by the state’s Investment Council.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Retirement Committee to:
      (1)   Provide each employee a summary of plan eligibility requirements
and benefit provisions;
      (2)   Provide, within 30 days after a request is made by a participant, a
statement describing the amount of benefits each participant is eligible to
receive;
      (3)   Make available for review an annual report of the system’s
operations describing both (a) the amount of contributions to the system from
both employee and employer sources and (b) an identification of the total
assets of the retirement system.
(2005 Code, § 3-403)
ARTICLE 5: PARKS DEPARTMENT AND SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
3-501   Municipal parks; operation and funding; injury to property
   
3-502   Municipal swimming pool; operation and funding; admission charge;
rentals
   
3-503   Municipal campground; operation and funding; care of property;
violation of regulations; penalties
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the Parks Foreperson and Municipal Services
Director. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management and maintenance of the municipal park may each year levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Park and Recreation Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The governing body shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the municipal parks and other
recreational areas of the municipality. Neither the foreperson, nor the
Municipal Services Director, shall enter into a contract of any nature which
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the governing body prior to the contractual agreement.
(2005 Code, § 3-501)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut
down, injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area or injure or destroy any
building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of
the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on
or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(2005 Code, § 3-502)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING; ADMISSION CHARGE;
RENTALS.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance and improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject
to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall, at all times, be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Service Director shall appoint a qualified pool manager, in
accordance with the rules and regulations prepared and adopted by the state’s
Department of Health, who shall manage the swimming pool. The Municipal
Services Director shall have the power and authority to supervise the swimming
pool manager and employees and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Director shall be under the supervision and control of the
governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-503)
   (B)   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool,
make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal
swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming
pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons
in a reasonable manner; provided that, nothing herein shall be construed to
permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national
origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(2005 Code, § 3-504)
   (C)   The Municipal Services Director shall have the authority to rent the
municipal swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as they may, in
their discretion, see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The
Director shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(2005 Code, § 3-505)
§ 3-503 MUNICIPAL CAMPGROUND; OPERATION AND FUNDING; CARE OF PROPERTY;
VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal campground and other
recreational areas through the Municipal Services Director. The governing body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care and maintenance of the
municipal campground, will charge a daily camping fee as prescribed by
resolution. The revenue from such charges shall be known as the Municipal
Campground Maintenance Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City
Treasurer. The governing body shall have the authority to adopt by resolution,
rules and regulations for the efficient management, care and use of the
campground and its associated facilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act of vandalism or
malicious destruction of property at the municipal campground. No person shall
commit any waste on or litter the municipal campground or any other public
grounds of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any rules
or regulations which have been established by the Municipal Services Director
and adopted by resolution of the local governing body for the safe operation of
the campground or other public areas within the city’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of any campground rule or regulation as
set forth in subsection (B) above or by resolution of the Mayor and Council
shall be fined $25 per day, per offense. If such fine should reach a maximum of
$300, the offender’s camper will be relocated to the city impound lot and the
offender shall pay any applicable fine, plus charges for removal and storage as
are set forth by independent resolution of the Mayor and Council of the city.
(Ord. 2372, passed 4-21-2015)
ARTICLE 6: LIBRARY
Section
   
3-601   Operation and funding
   
3-602   Rules and regulations
§ 3-601 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality, along with the county, owns and manages the public library
through the Library Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds
of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income- producing personal property
and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as it may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-601)
§ 3-602 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the public library for the preservation and efficient management thereof. They
shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for injury to
the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, or for failure to return a
book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil action in
the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay the said assessments.
(2005 Code, § 3-602)
ARTICLE 7: LANDFILL
Section
   
3-701   Operation and funding
   
3-702   State regulation
§ 3-701 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal landfill through the
Municipal Services Director. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal landfill may
each year levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law,
on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The governing body may set by
resolution any use fees to be charged and file the same in the office of the
Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Municipal
Services Director shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the landfill subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-701)
§ 3-702 STATE REGULATION.
   The municipality shall when required apply for a license to operate the
municipal landfill. Application shall be made to the Department of
Environmental Quality on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be
charged for such licensing. If the municipality has complied with the
provisions of Neb. RS 81-1501 to 81-1533 and the rules and regulations adopted
thereunder. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Services Director to comply
with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of Environmental
Quality for the use and operation of the municipal landfill.
(2005 Code, § 3-702)
ARTICLE 8: AUDITORIUM
Section
   
3-801   Ownership
   
3-802   Rentals
§ 3-801 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal auditorium through the
Municipal Service Director. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the management, maintenance and improvements on the municipal
auditorium may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Auditorium Fund and shall include all gifts, grants,
deed of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income- producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
municipal auditorium. The Auditorium Fund shall at all times be in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Service Director shall have the power
to hire and supervise such employees as he or she may deem necessary and shall
pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the auditorium as may be
proper for its efficient management. All actions by the Director shall be under
the supervision and control of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 3-801)
§ 3-802 RENTALS.
   The Municipal Services Director may, for the purpose of defraying the
expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the
auditorium and any other municipal public buildings, make a reasonable rental
charge for the use by any person or organization of the auditorium or municipal
public building. The governing body has adopted an auditorium policy, which the
Director shall administer, to regulate the rentals and uses of the auditorium
and municipal public buildings. The auditorium policy shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. Rental rates shall be set by resolution of the governing body and may be
structured for classes of persons and organizations in a reasonable manner;
provided that, nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in the
classification of persons and organizations for rental purposes.
(2005 Code, § 3-802)
ARTICLE 9: MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
3-901   Ownership
   
3-902   Contracts and terms
   
3-903   Consumer’s application
   
3-904   Electrical service contracts
   
3-905   Standard and requirements for wiring
   
3-906   Installation; city to make connections
   
3-907   Meters; required, regulations
   
3-908   Billing procedure
   
3-909   Minimum rates
   
3-910   Service Deposit Fund
   
3-911   Restricted use
   
3-912   Poles and wires
   
3-913   Tree work near transmission lines
   
3-914   City’s right to protect lines
   
3-915   Posting signs
   
3-916   Single connection
   
3-917   Inspections
   
3-918   Unauthorized connections
   
3-919   Destruction of property
§ 3-901 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the
electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
From time to time the governing body shall, by resolution, define the various
classes of users of electricity and set a schedule of rates applicable to each
class. At least three copies of the schedules currently in effect shall be kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk for the use and examination of the
public.
(2005 Code, § 3-901)
§ 3-902 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality, through its Utilities Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to properties within its service area as
established by the state’s Power Review Board. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named, in this article shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Utilities Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or
her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building
or place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for
such building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(2005 Code, § 3-902)
§ 3-903 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   Any applicant may be required to make a service deposit in such amount
as has been set by the governing body and on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 3-903)
§ 3-904 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. If any consumer shall
sell, dispose or remove from the premises where service is furnished in his or
her name, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
electrical service to be shut off from the said premises. If the consumer
should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity
used on the said premises until the Utility Superintendent is otherwise advised
of such circumstances.
(2005 Code, § 3-904)
§ 3-905 STANDARD AND REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRING.
   Any consumer of electricity from the city may have wiring done by any
competent person or company, duly licensed as provided in this code, but under
no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the electric
distribution system of the city and the wires of the consumer, except by an
employee of the city. All wiring, equipment and apparatus shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with the rules, requirements and conditions of the
applicable codes adopted in
Ch. 9 of this code of ordinances and shall be approved by the Utilities
Superintendent or some other authorized agent of the city. The city shall not
be liable in any way for damages from or to any wiring or motors, persons or
property inside any building. Consumers shall not use or permit to be used the
service of the electric distribution system of the city for the operation of
radio, television, refrigeration or other equipment that will affect such
service without complying with the rules of the city governing such equipment.
(2005 Code, § 3-905)
§ 3-906 INSTALLATION; CITY TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When application has been made for electric service to the Utilities
Superintendent, the city will make the connections from the electrical system
to the building of the consumer in accordance with the current Electrical Code
of the city.
   (B)   All such supply wires and meters so furnished shall be considered the
property of the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-906)
§ 3-907 METERS; REQUIRED, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All electric current furnished consumers by the electric distribution
system of the city shall be measured by meter. The city will furnish all
necessary meters to consumers of electricity from the city and will keep all
meters clean and in repair at the expense of the city. The owner or tenant of
premises where a meter is located shall provide ready and convenient access to
the meter so that it may easily be examined and read by authorized agents of
the city.
   (B)   No person, except an authorized agent of the city, shall be allowed to
set meters of the distribution system of the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-907)
§ 3-908 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   Bills for electrical service shall be due and payable at the time they are
received.
(2005 Code, § 3-908)
§ 3-909 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall notify the Utilities Department.
The Utilities Superintendent shall issue a written order to shut off the
electricity, in which case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for
electrical service until the electricity is turned on again.
(2005 Code, § 3-909)
§ 3-910 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   The service deposit required for electrical service shall be promptly paid
upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From the said deposit
shall be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. The service deposit shall
be collected by the Utilities Superintendent and immediately turned over to the
Municipal Treasurer who shall keep the said fees in a trust fund for the
customers of the electrical system. Said Fund shall be put out at interest
separate and apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall be
expended solely for the repair of equipment and property of the municipal
electrical system.
(2005 Code, § 3-910)
§ 3-911 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(2005 Code, § 3-911)
§ 3-912 POLES AND WIRES.
   (A)   All poles, overhead wires, transformers and other aerial construction
equipment or apparatus shall be erected in a substantial manner and shall be
placed in rights-of-way, alleys and/or easements either private or of the city
insofar as it is practical to do so.
   (B)   All wires shall be erected and maintained at such height as required
by the National Electrical Safety Code.
(2005 Code, § 3-912)
§ 3-913 TREE WORK NEAR TRANSMISSION LINES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof, or to fell
the same, in close proximity to the lines of the electric distribution system
of the city, which work might cause injury or damage to the lines thereof,
shall, before doing the work, give reasonable written notice to the city, shall
secure a permit in writing from the Utilities Superintendent and shall seek the
assistance of the city to do such work so that electric service shall not be
interrupted or damage done to the lines or property of the city. Any person
felling or removing such trees, or branches of trees, resulting in the
interruption of electric service or damage to the lines or property of the
city, without having given notice to the city, as aforesaid, and without having
received such permit in writing from the Utilities Superintendent, shall be
guilty of a violation of this article.
(2005 Code, § 3-913)
§ 3-914 CITY’S RIGHT TO PROTECT LINES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electric distribution system of the city, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the right to remove and cut away in a careful and prudent manner
overhanging branches or limbs of trees so that its lines shall be free and
open. Such right, privilege and authority may also be exercised by the city
whenever the Mayor and City Council at any regular or special meeting shall
pass a resolution stating its intention so to cut or remove such obstructions
to the lines and service of its electric distribution system.
(2005 Code, § 3-914)
§ 3-915 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
(2005 Code, § 3-915)
§ 3-916 SINGLE CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any scheme, device or
contrivance for the purpose of evading the proper service and registration of
any meter or to employ any scheme or device whereby he or she may obtain
current which does not pass through the meter furnished him or her by the
Utilities Superintendent. Any lighting apparatus attached to a power meter or
any device in or near any meter which causes the same to register incorrectly
shall be prima facie evidence of the intent of the occupier of the premises, or
of such consumer, to convert electric current to his or her own use.
(2005 Code, § 3-916)
§ 3-917 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided that, in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(2005 Code, § 3-917)
§ 3-918 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No person, except as authorized by the Mayor and City Council, shall connect
or make any changes in the switches, motors, meters, wire or wiring, or any
electrical apparatus of any description, where such electric current is used,
or in any way interfere with or injure the same, or any connection, when the
same is connected with the supply wires of the electric distribution system of
the city.
(2005 Code, § 3-918)
§ 3-919 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(2005 Code, § 3-919)
ARTICLE 10: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
3-1001   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
§ 3-1001 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before any termination, the Department of utilities shall first give
notice by first class mail or in person to any domestic subscriber whose
service is proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first class mail,
such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not
be discontinued for at least seven days. As to any subscriber who has
previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the Department by the
county’s Welfare Department, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice
of such proposed termination shall be given to the county’s Welfare Department.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department’s services for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this subsection (B)(7) for
each incidence of non-payment of any due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made
by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may
discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the governing body for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk,
are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and
are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(2005 Code, § 3-1001)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
3-1101   Violation; penalty
§ 3-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 3-1101)
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
3.   NUISANCES
      
4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-101   Regulations
   
4-102   Enforcement official
   
4-103   State rules
   
4-104   County Health Board
§ 4-101 REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(2005 Code, § 4-101)
§ 4-102 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the
chief health officer of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 4-102)
§ 4-103 STATE RULES.
   (A)   The “Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health”, Department of
Health of the state, are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended.
   (B)   Three copies of the said pamphlet are filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(2005 Code, § 4-103)
§ 4-104 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the
county’s Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of
the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 4-104)
ARTICLE 2: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
4-201   Definitions
   
4-202   Trash and waste
   
4-203   Haulers
   
4-204   Removal from city
§ 4-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(2005 Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees,
branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags,
grass, leaves or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to
the health of the residents of the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Grass, leaves, cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or
sand.
(2005 Code, § 4-203)
§ 4-202 TRASH AND WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles and as nearly air-tight as
may be practical. Where the owner or lessee of the premises rents a portion
thereof to two or more families, or occupants, he or she shall provide a
suitable receptacle for garbage, as provided in this section, to be used by all
such tenants or occupants.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks
or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, grass, leaves,
refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish,
waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall remove the same from their
property within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Municipal Police
Chief who shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage,
rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a
short period of time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage
can with a tight cover. All persons shall have the contents of their garbage
cans removed at least once per month. Any garbage, trash or waste outside of
garbage cans must be properly bound to prevent scattering and must be removed
at least once per week. It shall be unlawful for any person to place garbage,
rubbish, waste or refuse in a receptacle belonging to another person without
his or her permission.
(2005 Code, § 4-204)
§ 4-203 HAULERS.
   Any person may haul his or her own garbage accumulating or originating on
premises owned or occupied by him or her, but shall provide therefor closed
containers or conveyances which, shall be water-tight when hauling garbage. No
person, except a garbage collector designated by the Mayor and Council, shall
collect or remove garbage for any other person.
(2005 Code, § 4-205)
§ 4-204 REMOVAL FROM CITY.
   (A)   Every person accumulating refuse shall remove and convey the same, or
cause the same to be removed and conveyed, from the city to some place as
directed by the City Council or the Board of Health, as often as may be
necessary to comply with this article and as often and at such other times as
the City Council or the Board of Health may direct or deem necessary.
   (B)   No refuse shall be deposited at the city landfill, except at places so
designated at such landfill.
   (C)   All conveyances used to remove refuse from the city shall be covered
when hauling refuse or the refuse shall be so secured in such manner as will
prevent any of the refuse from falling or escaping from the conveyance into or
upon any street, alley or lot within the city.
(2005 Code, § 4-206)
ARTICLE 3: NUISANCES
Section
   
4-301   Generally defined
   
4-302   Specifically defined
   
4-303   Slaughterhouses
   
4-304   Livestock trucks
   
4-305   Abatement procedure
   
4-306   Jurisdiction
§ 4-301 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(2005 Code, § 4-301)
§ 4-302 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cat tie pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
and
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(2005 Code, § 4-302)
§ 4-303 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   No person shall operate or maintain a slaughterhouse within the city, except
as permitted by the zoning regulations; provided that, after slaughter outside
the city, animals may be processed for commercial purposes or otherwise
therein. Fowl may be slaughtered and processed for commercial or other purposes
within the city, if the places used or maintained for such purpose are kept in
a sanitary and clean condition. No person so operating or maintaining such
slaughterhouse shall allow parts of fowl, carcasses or blood thereof to remain
open and exposed or accumulated in any manner likely to cause the same to
putrefy or to attract insects, rodents or vermin. Any person so operating or
maintaining such slaughterhouse shall keep such premises clean, and shall
forthwith remove the carcasses and remnants of all fowl or blood thereof
slaughtered therein and shall exercise care to avoid offensive odors, sights or
conditions. It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to inspect any such
premises and to make such requirements as to health, sanitation and cleanliness
as are reasonably designed to promote the public health and comfort.
(2005 Code, § 4-303)
§ 4-304 LIVESTOCK TRUCKS.
   No person shall park any loaded or unloaded livestock trucks or load or
unload the same in the city in such a manner, or in such a place that loud
noises or foul odors are permitted to emanate therefrom, to the annoyance of
inhabitants of the municipality, or in any manner as to constitute a nuisance
or be offensive to others.
(2005 Code, § 4-304)
§ 4-305 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances.
Upon determination by the Board of Health that said owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate free of public nuisances, the
governing body shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof, by publication and by certified
mail. Such notice shall describe the condition as found by the Board of Health
and state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the
condition must be remedied at once. If the person receiving the notice has not
complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of the Board of
Health within five days after receipt of certified mail or within five days
after date of publication whichever is later, the Board of Health shall notify
the governing body of such noncompliance and the governing body shall, upon
receipt of such notice, cause a hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to
be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of the real
estate. Such notice of hearing shall be by personal service or certified mail
and require such party or parties to appear before the governing body to show
cause why such condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and
remedied. A return of service shall be required by the governing body. Such
notice shall be given not less than five days prior to the time of hearing;
provided that, whenever the owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of such real
estate is a non-resident or cannot be found in the state, then the Municipal
Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality,
such notice of hearing for two consecutive weeks, the last publication to be at
least one week prior to the date set for the hearing. Upon the date fixed for
the hearing and pursuant to notice, the governing body shall hear all
objections made by interested parties and shall hear evidence submitted by the
Board of Health. If, after consideration of all of the evidence, the governing
body shall find that the said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee to remedy
the said public nuisance at once; provided, the party or parties may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which
proceedings the decision of the governing body shall be stayed. Should the
owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply with the order of the
governing body, the governing body shall proceed to cause the abatement of the
described public nuisance. Upon completion of the work by the municipality, a
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the governing body,
which is authorized to bill the property owner or occupant, or to levy the cost
as a special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a
lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for
special assessments.
(2005 Code, § 4-305)
§ 4-306 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the municipality are directed to enforce
this municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality
within two miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(2005 Code, § 4-306)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-401   Violation; penalty
   
4-402   Abatement of nuisance
§ 4-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 4-401)
§ 4-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(2005 Code, § 4-402)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
4.   PARKING
      
5.   OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
      
6.   MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, MINIBIKES, GO-KARTS, ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND
SKATEBOARDS WITH MOTORS
      
7.   SNOWMOBILES
      
8.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
9.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
10.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP
      
11.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch. 60, as now
existing or hereafter amended, unless defined otherwise in this section. If not
defined in the designated statute, nor in this section, the word or phrase
shall have its common meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any presumptively abandoned vehicle for which the notices
of right of redemption prescribed by this chapter have been given and which has
not been redeemed by the owner within the redemption period prescribed by this
chapter.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular
traffic.
   ALLEY ENTRANCE. The extension of the alley from the lot line to the street
curb line; or, if no curb line exists, from the lot line to the edge of the
traveled portion of the street.
   AREAS. Particular locations within the city declared by the governing body
for parking.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The portion of the municipality embraced within, and the
area of public streets as designated by resolution of the City Council.
   CONGESTED DISTRICT. The following portions of streets and alleys in the
municipality as designated by resolution of the City Council.
   CURB. The lateral boundaries of that portion of a street designated for the
use of vehicles, whether marked by curb stones or not so marked.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. The person operating any motor vehicle.
   FREIGHT VEHICLES. Any motorized vehicle which is specifically designed to
carry and transport freight or cargo for the purpose of delivering and
unloading of freight or cargo.
   INTERSECTION or STREET INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled by a power other than muscle power,
except railway trains running upon their own tracks, and motor powered
equipment equipped with motors not more than 18 horsepower, used for the
removal of snow or for cleaning sidewalks.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
street, alley, public way or public owned or operated parking facility, or
other public area, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in the loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   PRESUMPTIVELY ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle left on any street, city
property or private property for more than the period of time prescribed in
this chapter. Any vehicle left partially on any street or city property and
partially on private property shall be deemed to be on such street or city
property.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the public
for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   PULL CAMPER. Every vehicle without motorized power designed for living
quarters.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SELF-PROPELLED MOBILE HOME. A vehicle with motive power designed for living
quarters.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle, without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
the towing vehicle.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line.
   STOP. A complete cessation of movement.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TERRACE. The space of each side of the street between the property line and
the curb line.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power carrying persons or property and
being pulled by a motorized vehicle.
   TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed primarily to transport freight, cargo, farm
goods or farm equipment or a motor vehicle equipped or used primarily to carry
anything other than passengers.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed or used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and a load being drawn.
   VEND or VENDING. The offering of prepared food products, including, but not
limited to, frozen dairy products, ice flavored with syrup, confectionary,
sandwiches or soft drinks for sale from a vehicle on the roadways of the city.
   VENDING VEHICLE. Every vehicle in which prepared foods, including, but not
limited to, frozen dairy products, ice flavored with syrup, confectionary,
sandwiches or soft drinks are carried for purposes of retail sale on the
roadways of the city.
(2005 Code, § 5-101)
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-201   Automatic lights and signals
   
5-202   Right turn on red
   
5-203   Truck routes
   
5-204   One-way traffic
   
5-205   Traffic lanes; designation
   
5-206   Arterial streets; designation
   
5-207   Turning; “U” turns; hand signals; cautious
   
5-208   Right-of-way; overtaken vehicles; slow moving vehicles; emergency
vehicles
   
5-209   Position of vehicle on highway; generally; passing
   
5-210   Moving stopped vehicle
   
5-211   Crosswalks
   
5-212   Signs, signals generally
   
5-213   Stop signs
   
5-214   Flashing signals
§ 5-201 AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall turn at any intersection where an automatic signal
system is in operation, except when such signal system is displaying a green
light; provided, vehicles may turn on a red signal when in compliance with the
provisions of this article governing such turns. No vehicle shall be turned so
as to proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic
signal system is in operation.
(2005 Code, § 5-201)
   (B)   (1)   Automatic stop lights or signals shall be established at such
places as designated by ordinance as shown on the Traffic-Control Map of the
Mayor and City Council. At each intersection where an automatic signal system
is in operation, all vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing such street
intersection shall be governed by such automatic signal system. Vehicular
traffic facing a green signal may proceed straight through or turn right or
left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent
crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in combination
with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the
movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by
other indications shown at the same time, and such vehicular traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green arrow may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (4)   Traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned that the
related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection and, upon display of a steady yellow signal, vehicular traffic
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but, if
such stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through
the intersection.
      (5)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
      (6)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone shall stop at a
clearly-marked stop line, but, if there is no such line, then before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no crosswalk
then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until an
indication to proceed is shown, except as provided in §
5-202 of this article.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any such signal.
(2005 Code, § 5-202)
§ 5-202 RIGHT TURN ON RED.
   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a turn,
vehicles facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
make a right turn after stopping. Such turning vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the adjacent crosswalk and to other
vehicular traffic lawfully using the intersection. The governing body of the
municipality has the authority to prohibit turning right on red at any
intersection within the municipality where it deems such a prohibition
necessary; provided, those intersections where turning right on red is
prohibited shall bear signs to that effect placed and printed in such a manner
so as to be conspicuous from a vehicle about to enter the intersection.
(2005 Code, § 5-203)
§ 5-203 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by ordinance as shown on the Traffic-Control Map,
designate certain streets in the municipality that trucks shall travel upon,
and it shall be unlawful for persons operating such trucks to travel on other
streets than those designated for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods,
wares, or merchandise, and in that event, the operator of such truck shall
return to such truck routes as soon as possible in traveling through, or about
the municipality. The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or shall
erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(2005 Code, § 5-204)
§ 5-204 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The governing body may, by ordinance as shown on the Traffic-Control Map,
provide for one-way travel in any street or alley located in the municipality
and shall provide for appropriate signs and markings when said streets have
been so designated by resolution.
(2005 Code, § 5-205)
§ 5-205 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may designate the marking of lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(2005 Code, § 5-206)
§ 5-206 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(2005 Code, § 5-207)
§ 5-207 TURNING; “U” TURNS; HAND SIGNALS; CAUTIOUS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that “U” turns are prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 5-208)
   (B)   (1)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of
the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of
Roads. The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner:
         (a)   Stop or decreased speed: hand and arm extended downward;
         (b)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally; and
         (c)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward.
      (2)   No left turn shall be made by the driver or operator of any vehicle
traveling on Fourth Avenue at the intersections thereof with East Avenue and
West Avenue. No left turns shall be made by the driver or operator of any
vehicle from streets on which vehicle is traveling at any intersection
therewith at which are placed “NO LEFT TURN” signs facing the direction from
which such driver is approaching.
(2005 Code, § 5-209)
   (C)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
For the purposes of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(2005 Code, § 5-210)
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning or changing
the course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn and, whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, he or she
shall give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
or her intention to make such movement.
(2005 Code, § 5-211)
§ 5-208 RIGHT-OF-WAY; OVERTAKEN VEHICLES; SLOW MOVING VEHICLES; EMERGENCY
VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   In crossing an intersection of streets, the driver of a vehicle
shall at all times cause such vehicle to travel on the right half of the
highway unless such right half is obstructed or impassable.
      (2)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall allow
the right-of-way to the approaching vehicle on the right, except as otherwise
provided in subsection (A)(3) below. The driver of any vehicle traveling at an
unlawful speed shall forfeit any right-of-way which he or she might otherwise
have hereunder.
      (3)   The driver of the vehicle approaching, but not having entered, an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle within such intersection
and turning therein to the left across the line of travel of such first
mentioned vehicle; provided that, the driver of the vehicle turning left has
given a plainly visible signal of intention to turn.
      (4)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street or alley within a congested
or residential district shall allow the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing
such street or alley within any regular pedestrian crossing included in the
prolongation of the lateral boundary line of the adjacent sidewalk at the end
of the block, except at intersections where the movement of traffic is being
regulated by a traffic officer or traffic regulation devices. Every pedestrian
crossing a street or alley within a congested or residential district at any
point other than a pedestrian crossing, crosswalk or intersections shall yield
the right-of- way to vehicles on the streets or alleys.
      (5)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, private
road or building shall stop such vehicle immediately before driving onto a
sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across such alley, driveway, road
or building entrance, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk extending across such alley, driveway, road or
building entrance. Before entering the highway, he or she shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such highway.
      (6)   The driver of a vehicle upon any street or alley shall yield the
right-of-way to Police or Fire Department vehicles, emergency unit vehicles or
any other emergency vehicle when the latter are operated upon official business
and the drivers thereof sound an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust
whistle. This provision shall not operate to relieve the driver of a Police or
Fire Department vehicle, emergency unit vehicle or any other emergency vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
streets or alleys, nor shall it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the
consequences of an arbitrary exercise of such right-of-way.
      (7)   The driver of a vehicle who intends to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (8)   Competent authority may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
      (9)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a
stop is indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but,
if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
      (10)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a
speed reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if there is no such line,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if no
crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard as if such driver moved across or into such
intersection.
      (11)   No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked without yielding the right-of-way to all other vehicles and pedestrians
affected by such movement and in no event until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
(2005 Code, § 5-212)
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another
vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-213)
   (C)   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on
the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street.
(2005 Code, § 5-214)
   (D)   (1)   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every
vehicle within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall
immediately stop, except at the time they are on or crossing a street
intersection, in which event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street
intersection and then stop.
      (2)   Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall
immediately move to a position as near the right hand curb as possible and
remain there until such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed;
provided, said vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers
thereof make use of proper visual or audible signals.
(2005 Code, § 5-215)
§ 5-209 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY; PASSING.
   (A)   (1)   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted,
the driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway.
      (2)   In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other
at least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(2005 Code, § 5-216)
   (B)   A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the centerline of the
highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(2005 Code, § 5-217)
§ 5-210 MOVING STOPPED VEHICLE.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(2005 Code, § 5-218)
§ 5-211 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Crosswalks are hereby established at all intersections of streets in
the city in the area between the prolongation or extension of the property
lines and the curb lines (or if no curbs are in place, then the edge of the
graded roadway in lieu thereof).
   (B)   Crosswalks may also be established at such schools, churches and other
places as may from time to time be designated as a crosswalk by resolution of
the Mayor and City Council. Notice of each such crosswalk shall be given by
signs, marking on the street surface or other appropriate method to advise
pedestrians and the operators of vehicles of the presence of such crosswalk.
   (C)   At any place where traffic-control signals or pedestrian control
signals are operating, no pedestrian or the operator of any vehicle shall cross
such streets, except as directed by and in accordance with such signals.
   (D)   Where traffic-control signals or pedestrian-control signals are not
operating, pedestrians in or entering any crosswalk shall have the right-of-way
over the operator of any vehicle at all such crosswalks. The operator of any
vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk which a pedestrian is entering
or crossing, and shall yield the right-of-way to such pedestrian; and the
operator of any vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the
purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(2005 Code, § 5-219)
§ 5-212 SIGNS, SIGNALS GENERALLY.
   The governing body may, by ordinance as shown on the Traffic-Control Map,
provide for the placing of stop signs, or other signs, signals, standards or
mechanical devices in any street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction
for the purpose of regulating, or prohibiting traffic thereon. The Traffic-
Control Map shall show the portion of the street or alley wherein traffic is to
be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or prohibition; the location where
such sign, signal, standard or mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours
when such regulation or prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation or
prohibition.
(2005 Code, § 5-220)
§ 5-213 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with §
5-212 of this article, cause such vehicle to come to a complete stop before
entering or crossing any street, highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle
operator shall stop at a marked stop line or, if there is no stop line, before
entering the crosswalk; but if neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-
way line of the intersecting roadway as possible.
(2005 Code, § 5-221)
§ 5-214 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   When a red lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly-marked stop line, but if there is
no such line then before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed
shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such signal
only with caution “and in accordance with regulatory sign(s)”.
(2005 Code, § 5-222)
ARTICLE 3: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
5-301   Littering
   
5-302   Glass; pointed objects
   
5-303   Signs; defacing or interfering with; unauthorized display
   
5-304   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
5-305   Speed limits; near schools; electronic detector
   
5-306   Reckless driving; willful
   
5-307   Careless driving
   
5-308   Backing
   
5-309   Unnecessary stopping
   
5-310   Passing; intersections; hindrance
   
5-311   Driving abreast
   
5-312   Following; distance; fire apparatus
   
5-313   Funeral processions
   
5-314   Crowding; front seat
   
5-315   Dragging; rope, chain
   
5-316   Riding; outside vehicle
   
5-317   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
5-318   Driving in sidewalk space
   
5-319   Vehicle; muffler
   
5-320   Emergency regulations
   
5-321   Police; enforcement; refusal to obey; traffic officers
   
5-322   Driving past barricades
   
5-323   Machines; injury to pavement
   
5-324   Heavy equipment; protecting public ways
   
5-325   Traffic citations; form and records
   
5-326   Engine brakes; definitions; use prohibited; penalties
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(2005 Code, § 5-301)
§ 5-302 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of, or containing,
glass and, in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be removed, from
the street.
(2005 Code, § 5-302)
§ 5-303 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure,
remove, obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(2005 Code, § 5-303)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in
view of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such
prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to
be removed, without notice.
(2005 Code, § 5-304)
§ 5-304 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   The governing body, by resolution, may declare any streets, or portions
thereof, lying within 300 feet of any hospital, nursing home or school, as
“quiet zones”, and no driver of any vehicle shall within such zones, make any
unnecessary noise or sound the horn or other warning device, of such vehicle,
except in an emergency.
(2005 Code, § 5-305)
§ 5-305 SPEED LIMITS; NEAR SCHOOLS; ELECTRONIC DETECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street within the
city at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and
having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing, nor in any
case at a rate of speed greater than the maximum speed established for such
place by ordinance of the Mayor and Council as shown on the Traffic-Control Map
or as authorized by an agency of the state. Any person shall decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway
conditions; and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, from time to time by ordinance as
identified on the Traffic- Control Map, designate a maximum speed limit for all
or any part of any street, alley or other public way. Notice of such speed
limits shall be given by signs, marking on the street surface or other
appropriate method to advise operators of vehicles of same.
      (3)   On all streets, alleys and other public ways for which the Mayor
and Council has not established a different speed limit, the maximum lawful
speed limit shall be that which is established by law for the state.
(2005 Code, § 5-306)
   (B)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets near
schools as school zones, and may make it unlawful to drive any motor vehicle at
a rate of speed greater than 15 mph in those zones. Such school zones shall be
posted accordingly.
(2005 Code, § 5-307)
   (C)   (1)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the municipality may be
determined by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The
results of such determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the
speed of such motor vehicle in any court, or legal proceedings, where the speed
of the motor vehicle is at issue.
      (2)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a
warrant under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays his or her badge of authority; provided that, such officer
shall have observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the
radio microwaves, or other electronic device or had received a radio message
from the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the
radio microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on
such a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after
the speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a
description of the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(2005 Code, § 5-308) (Ord. 755, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 5-306 RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive recklessly within the
city. Any person who drives any motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall
be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(2005 Code, § 5-310)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive in a willful reckless
manner. Any person who drives any motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
a willful disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be deemed to
be guilty of willful, reckless driving.
(2005 Code, § 5-311)
§ 5-307 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive in a careless manner. Any
person who drives any motor vehicle in the municipality carelessly or without
due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless
driving.
(2005 Code, § 5-312)
§ 5-308 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets, except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-313)
§ 5-309 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley so as to obstruct traffic so that other cars cannot easily pass the
stopped vehicle, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop
is necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices
and regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other
vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 5-314)
§ 5-310 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS; HINDRANCE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street.
(2005 Code, § 5-315)
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another
vehicle shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely
passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-316)
§ 5-311 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast, except when passing, or
when traversing a multi- lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(2005 Code, § 5-317)
§ 5-312 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE; FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the
vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(2005 Code, § 5-318)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into, or
park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm.
(2005 Code, § 5-319)
§ 5-313 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying United States
mail shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege, except with the
permission of a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 5-320)
§ 5-314 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-321)
§ 5-315 DRAGGING; ROPE, CHAIN.
   No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain or other article to drop
behind any vehicle in use on the streets, except persons operating vehicles
transporting gasoline, benzene or other flammable materials or persons
operating towing vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 5-322)
§ 5-316 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board,
hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle and allow anyone under the age of 18
to ride in the bed of a pickup. Nor shall any person ride on the running board,
hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle and anyone under the age of 18 to
ride in the bed of a pickup.
   (B)   Fire trucks, garbage trucks and participants of a parade are
exceptions to this section.
(2005 Code, § 5-323)
§ 5-317 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, roller skates, sled, skateboard or
scooter shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer
or permit any person traveling upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or
attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle, roller skates, sled,
skateboard or scooter to such vehicle so driven and operated by him or her.
(2005 Code, § 5-324)
§ 5-318 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven, ridden or parked on or within
any sidewalk space, except a permanent or temporary driveway and for snow
removal.
(2005 Code, § 5-325)
§ 5-319 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle operated within the municipality shall be provided
with a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or
smoke.
   (B)   No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler
or any other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that
the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the
vehicle as originally manufactured.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle
upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 5-326)
§ 5-320 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(2005 Code, § 5-327)
§ 5-321 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT; REFUSAL TO OBEY; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(2005 Code, § 5-328)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with,
any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 5-329)
   (C)   (1)   The governing body or the Mayor may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers”, at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned.
      (2)   It shall be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and
prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic officer notwithstanding the
directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which may have been placed at any
such intersection.
(2005 Code, § 5-330)
§ 5-322 DRIVING PAST BARRICADES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over or across any newly made pavement in
any public streets, across or around which pavement there is a barrier, at,
over or near which there is a sign warning persons not to drive over or across
such pavement or a sign stating that the street is closed.
(2005 Code, § 5-331)
§ 5-323 MACHINES; INJURY TO PAVEMENT.
   No person shall run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across or upon
any paved street in the city any vehicle, tractor, machine or implement of such
weight or proportions or carrying any load that will cut, mar, indent or
otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb within the city;
provided, that in cases where such vehicles are permitted or allowed to move
along paved or unpaved streets of the city, the Municipal Service Director is
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
structures will be permitted or allowed.
(2005 Code, § 5-332)
§ 5-324 HEAVY EQUIPMENT; PROTECTING PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall move or operate any tractor, road roller or truck of greater
capacity than three tons, or move any house or other building or structure,
across any bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing in any unpaved
street within the city without first protecting such bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in strength to warrant
against breaking or damaging of such bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or
crossing.
(2005 Code, § 5-333)
§ 5-325 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
issuance of such books, and shall maintain a record of every such book, and
each citation number therein issued to the municipal police. The Chief shall
require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The Chief of Police
shall require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not issued to an alleged
violator.
(2005 Code, § 5-334)
§ 5-326 ENGINE BRAKES; DEFINITIONS; USE PROHIBITED; PENALTIES.
   (A)   An ENGINE BRAKE is hereby defined as any means used by which the
engine, transmission or exhaust on any vehicle is employed as a braking
mechanism.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use Jake engine brakes within the
city limits.
   (C)   In the event that anyone uses engine brakes within the city and is
convicted of such, he or she shall be fined the sum of $100 and ordered to pay
the costs of such prosecution.
(2005 Code, § 5-335)
ARTICLE 4: PARKING
Section
   
5-401   Vehicles unattended
   
5-402   Marked spaces
   
5-403   Direction of traffic intersections
   
5-404   Parking designation
   
5-405   Parking areas
   
5-406   Obstructing alley
   
5-407   Parking in alleys
   
5-408   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
5-409   Parking near fire hydrants and stations
   
5-410   Parking near schools, theaters
   
5-411   Street intersections
   
5-412   Obstructing traffic
   
5-413   Parking generally
   
5-414   Parking; curbs, painted
   
5-415   Parking for repair of vehicle
   
5-416   Current license; owner of vehicle responsible for parking
   
5-417   Maximum time limit
   
5-418   Truck parking
   
5-419   Designated parallel parking
   
5-420   Parking for trailers, dangerous vehicles, long vehicles
   
5-421   Parking of vending vehicles
   
5-422   Restricted zone
   
5-423   Bureau of Violations
   
5-424   Parking tickets; destruction
   
5-425   Parking; reserved for handicapped; permit; penalty
   
5-426   Loading zones
   
5-427   Handicapped parking zones
   
5-428   Restricted parking zone; commercial bus; library; school bus; fire
zones; ten-minute parking zone; Fire Department parking; no parking or stopping
zone
§ 5-401 VEHICLES UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(2005 Code, § 5-401)
§ 5-402 MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   When parking places or stalls are marked off on the pavement or curb,
vehicles shall be parked only within such marked spaces.
   (B)   All center parking on the streets is prohibited, except on East Avenue
and West Avenue between Sixth (6th) Avenue and Railroad Street, for loading and
unloading purposes only; provided that, there will be no parking in the left
turn lanes on these streets.
   (C)   All other areas along such marked streets shall be deemed non-parking
areas.
(2005 Code, § 5-402)
§ 5-403 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing within 15 feet of any
street intersection or in such manner as to obstruct the vision of persons
approaching such intersections.
(2005 Code, § 5-403)
§ 5-404 PARKING DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the front wheel at the curb.
(2005 Code, § 5-404)
§ 5-405 PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by ordinance and as shown on the Traffic-
Control Map, set aside any street, alley, public way or portion thereof where
the parking of a particular kind or class of vehicle shall be prohibited or
where the parking of any vehicle shall be prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(2005 Code, § 5-405)
§ 5-406 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(2005 Code, § 5-406)
§ 5-407 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(2005 Code, § 5-407)
§ 5-408 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an overall length of less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging or loading freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as little
of the street as possible.
(2005 Code, § 5-408)
§ 5-409 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant, nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(2005 Code, § 5-409)
§ 5-410 PARKING NEAR SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The governing body may, by ordinance as shown on the Traffic-Control Map,
prohibit the parking or stopping, except for loading or unloading of passengers
or freight, of vehicles at the curb on streets directly in front of any
entrance to any public building, school building or theater, shall be painted
yellow to indicate such prohibition.
(2005 Code, § 5-410)
§ 5-411 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices or where posted or
designated, no vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose, except
momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection
of curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property
lines, nor where said curb lines are painted yellow to indicate such
prohibition.
(2005 Code, § 5-411)
§ 5-412 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive. It shall be
unlawful for any person or owner to stop or park any vehicle so as to obstruct
a private driveway in any manner which includes stopping or parking any vehicle
within five feet of the outer portion of a curb cut on a private driveway.
(2005 Code, § 5-412)
§ 5-413 PARKING GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
(2005 Code, § 5-413)
§ 5-414 PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Street Department to cause the curb space
to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this article.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or
in any manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street, or part thereof. The marking or designating of portions of streets or
alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the municipality through its proper officers. Three colors of paint
will be used.
      (1)   Yellow. The use of yellow paint upon the curb of any street shall
indicate that such space has been designated as a “no parking zone”.
      (2)   Green. The use of green paint upon the curb of any street shall
indicate that such space has been designated as a “loading zone”.
      (3)   Blue. The use of blue paint upon the curb of any street shall
indicate that such space has been designated as a “handicapped zone”.
(2005 Code, § 5-414)
§ 5-415 PARKING FOR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of the
municipality, excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same.
No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks, streets or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the
purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(2005 Code, § 5-415)
§ 5-416 CURRENT LICENSE; OWNER OF VEHICLE RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle parked or left standing upon any street, alley, public
way or public parking facility, or other public property shall have license
plates attached thereto, which are issued for the vehicle, to which said
license plates are attached, and are registered in the name of the owner of the
vehicle in accordance with the laws of the state or of the state wherein the
license is issued.
   (B)   If any vehicle is found upon any street, alley, public way or public
parking facility, or other public property in violation of any of the provision
of this article, regulating the parking of vehicles and the identity of the
driver cannot be determined.
   (C)   The owner or person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be
held prima facie responsible for such violation.
(2005 Code, § 5-416)
§ 5-417 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street in the residential area
for over 72 consecutive hours; or in a two-hour parking zone for more than ten
consecutive hours; or in a controlled public parking area for more than 24
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted; provided that, the parking of such vehicles, trailers, implements or
equipment shall not conflict with the provisions of any other section of this
code.
(2005 Code, § 5-417)
§ 5-418 TRUCK PARKING.
   No person shall park any truck in the districts along either side of Fourth
(4th) Avenue, starting at Garfield Street on the east and extending to Grant
Street on the west, and along either side of East and West Avenues from
Railroad Street to Sixth (6th) Avenue. This restriction shall not apply to such
parking as may be reasonably necessary for purposes of loading or unloading.
(2005 Code, § 5-418)
§ 5-419 DESIGNATED PARALLEL PARKING.
   All parking on both sides of Grant Street from Fourth (4th) Avenue to Fifth
(5th) Avenue is restricted to parallel parking, unless otherwise posted.
(2005 Code, § 5-419)
§ 5-420 PARKING FOR TRAILERS, DANGEROUS VEHICLES, LONG VEHICLES.
   No person shall keep, place or leave on any street, alley, sidewalk or
public thoroughfare within the city, any petroleum transport vehicle nor any
anhydrous ammonia transport vehicle. Nor shall any anhydrous ammonia transport
vehicle be parked on any private premises within any commercial zone of the
city, except as may be reasonably necessary for purposes of loading or
unloading. Nor shall any such petroleum or anhydrous ammonia transport vehicle
be parked on any private premises within any residential zone of the city. No
person shall keep, place or leave on any street, alley, sidewalk or public
thoroughfare within any residential zone of the city any truck, truck trailer,
semi-trailer or any combination thereof with a unit or combined overall length
exceeding 35 feet, except as may be reasonably necessary for purposes of
loading or unloading.
(2005 Code, § 5-420)
§ 5-421 PARKING OF VENDING VEHICLES.
   No vehicle used for the purpose of vending merchandise, meats, fruits,
vegetables or confections or other vehicle commonly known as a peddler’s car or
wagon shall be allowed to stand on any street longer than 15 minutes in any one
location.
(2005 Code, § 5-421)
§ 5-422 RESTRICTED ZONE.
   If any vehicle parked in a restricted parking zone shall remain parked in
any such parking space with a sign designating a specific use or time limit,
the vehicle shall be considered illegally parked and such parking shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 5-422)
§ 5-423 BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Non-Moving Traffic Violations Bureau
within the powers and duties of the office of the city’s Police Department. A
copy of each citation issued for non-moving traffic violations shall be
deposited with the city’s Police Department, whose duty it shall be to assess
all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate records of all such fines.
Fines shall be payable at the office of the City Clerk between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. Such fines shall
be in the amount of $10 if paid within two working days from the date and time
of issuance. If paid within ten working days from the date of issuance, the
fine shall be $25. Should any such fine not be paid within the ten-working day
period, the city police shall ask the City Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court. The fine for any such violation after ten working days or
after judgment is entered against the violator shall be $50.
   (B)   (1)   Such fines, in the case of a truck, truck trailer, semi-trailer
or any combination thereof with a unit of combined overall length exceeding 35
feet, shall be $25 if paid within two working days from the date and time of
issuance.
      (2)   If paid within ten working days from the date of issuance, the fine
shall be $50. Should any such fine not be paid within the ten-working day
period, the city police shall ask the City Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court.
      (3)   The fine for any such violation after ten working days or after
judgment is entered against the violator shall be $100.
   (C)   All fines assessed by the city’s Police Department under this section
shall, upon collection, be transferred to the school district in which the city
lies. The Police Department shall make a record of all violators showing the
name of each violator, the time and date of such violation and the disposition
of the penalties and fees fixed. All money assessed by the Police Department
shall be accounted for by the City Treasurer as provided by law.
   (D)   All parking tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic
regulations contained in this section shall, in addition to information
normally stated on such tickets, carry the following information:
      (1)   The amount of the fine if paid within two working days;
      (2)   The amount of the fine if paid within ten working days;
      (3)   The amount of the fine if not paid within ten working days;
      (4)   The location where payment may be made; and
      (5)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after ten working days if
the fine is not paid in that time.
(2005 Code, § 5-423)
§ 5-424 PARKING TICKETS; DESTRUCTION.
   No person shall tear up or destroy any parking tag placed upon any vehicle
by any police officer of the city, or disregard the summons contained on such
tag. No person shall remove any mark placed on a tire by any police officer of
the city for the purpose of enforcing overtime parking.
(2005 Code, § 5-424)
§ 5-425 PARKING; RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED; PERMIT; PENALTY.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of
handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing
license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 3,113.03, and
such other handicapped or disabled persons, whose vehicles display the
identifications as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
Neb. RS 3,113.03 and such other motor vehicles, which display such
identification from another state pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1736. Whenever the
governing body or any person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a sign which
is in conformance with the latest edition of the Federal Highway Administration
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, for streets and highways. In
addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by blue paint on the
curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the space.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall take an application from handicapped disabled
person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent,
legal guardian or foster parent for a permit or for the renewal of a permit
which entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the
purpose of transporting such a holder of the permit. For purposes of this
section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit. A copy of the
completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person. No applicant shall be required to provide his
or her Social Security number. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or
disabled person, the certifying physician, physician assistant or advanced
practice registered nurse shall indicated the estimated date of recovery or
that the temporary handicap or disability will continue for a period of six
months, whichever is less.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall take any application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
those spaces provided for by this article if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons . Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it is issued is being used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
designed spaces.
   (E)   A persons applying for permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle which is used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to
the City Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and demonstrate to the City
Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled person. A copy
of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 3,113.03.
   (G)   A person may hold only one permit under subsections (A) or (B) above,
but not both. However, handicapped individuals may obtain handicapped license
plated for their vehicle in addition to their permit.
   (H)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this article.
   (I)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (J)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including name and address of the cited
person or, if not known, the license number and description of the offending
motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person is cited
to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time
of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation.
      (2)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (K)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint charging
such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (L)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (M)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure to display a handicapped parking permit
issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint shall be
dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of the
citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit provided for in
Neb. RS 18-1741.03, signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is
the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit
issued under Neb. RS 3,113.03 and that the peace officer has personally viewed
the permit.
   (N)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department and the city
providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an off-street
parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, of
any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this article if there is posted above ground and
immediately adjacent to the visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (O)   (1)   Anyone who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space which
has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of such persons, or in any so exclusively designed parking space
in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper
permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the
license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it
is parked in the designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking
infraction as defined in Neb. RS 18-1741.01 and shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in subsection (E) above and the penalty provided for
herein. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (2)   If the identity of the person who parked in the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for
herein.
   (P)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
   (Q)   For any violation of this section, the citation or complaint may be
issued to or against either the owner or operator of the vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for either to violate or allow a vehicle owned by him or her to
violate any provision of this section.
   (R)   (1)   The fine/penalty in the case of illegal handicapped parking if
paid within two working days from the date and time of issuance shall be $50.
      (2)   If paid within ten working days from the date and time of issuance,
the fine shall be $75. Should any fine not be paid within the ten working days,
the city police shall ask the City Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court. The fine/penalty for any such violation after ten working
days or after judgment is entered against the violator shall be $100.
(2005 Code, § 5-425)
§ 5-426 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stop, park or
stand such vehicle at any designated loading zone except for the purpose of
loading and unloading merchandise or passengers and such vehicle shall not
occupy said loading zone for a time that is longer than it takes to load or
unload, no such loading zone shall be subject at any time limit on loading or
unloading.
   (B)   The following are designated as loading zones:
      (1)   On the east side of East Avenue, one space beginning 85 feet south
of the curb line of 6th Avenue.
      (2)   On the east side of East Avenue, one space beginning 142 feet south
of the south curb line of 6th Avenue.
      (3)   On the east side of West Avenue, one space 13 feet long, beginning
27 feet north of the north curb line of 6th Avenue;
      (4)   On the north side of 7th Avenue, one space 33 feet long beginning
43 feet east of the east curb line of West Avenue.
      (5)   On the west side of West Avenue, one space beginning 98 feet north
of the north curb line of 4th Avenue.
(2005 Code, § 5-426) (Ord. 2356, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2404, passed 12-5-2017;
Ord. 2415, passed 3- 20-2018; Ord. 2441, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 2444, passed
12-15-2020)
§ 5-427 HANDICAPPED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Parking in the following spaces shall be restricted to vehicles
displaying handicapped permits as outlined herein. Said space shall be posted
with a sign designating it as a handicapped zone. The adjacent curb shall be
painted blue.
   (B)   The following are designated as handicapped zones:
      (1)   On the north side of 7th Avenue: one space, 21 feet long, 22 feet
east of the east curb line of West Avenue;
      (2)   On the north side of 12th Avenue: one space, 202 feet west of the
west curb line of Grant Street;
      (3)   On the west side of East Avenue: one space, 35 feet north of the
north curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (4)   On the east side of East Avenue: one space, 38 feet north of the
north curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (5)   On the east side of West Avenue: one space, 22 feet south of the
south curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (6)   On the west side of West Avenue: one space, 38 feet south of the
south curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (7)   On the east side of West Avenue: one space, 20 feet south of the
south curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (8)   On the west side of West Avenue: one space, 38 feet south of the
south curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (9)   On the south side of 5th Avenue: one space, 21 feet west of the
west curb line of Grant Street;
      (10)   On the north side of 6th Avenue: one space, 25 feet east of the
east curb line of East Avenue;
      (11)   On the east side of West Avenue: one space, 38 feet north of the
north curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (12)   On the west side of West Avenue: one space, 38 feet south of the
south curb line of 3rd Avenue;
      (13)   On the north side of 10th Avenue: one space, 14 feet long, 150
feet west of the west curb line of Lincoln Street;
      (14)   On the north side of 10th Avenue: one space, 14 feet long, 236
feet west of the west curb line of Lincoln Street;
      (15)   On the north side of 10th Avenue: two spaces, 14 feet long, 260
feet west of the west curb line of Lincoln Street;
      (16)   Fives spaces in the North Park parking areas and two spaces in the
South Park parking areas;
      (17)   On the north side of 7th Avenue: one space, 22 feet long, 76 feet
east of the east curb line of West Avenue;
      (18)   On the north side of 6th Avenue: one space, 32 feet east of the
east curb line of West Avenue;
      (19)   On the west side of East Avenue: one space, 95 feet south of the
south curb line of 4th Avenue;
      (20)   On the west side of East Avenue: one space, 20 feet north of the
north curb line of 3rd Avenue;
      (21)   On the east side of East Avenue: one space, ten feet south of the
north curb line of 3rd Avenue extended;
      (22)   On the west side of West Avenue: one space, 20 feet north of the
north curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (23)   On the west side of West Avenue: one space, 20 feet north of the
north curb line of 3rd Avenue;
      (24)   On the east side of East Avenue: one space, 38 feet north of the
north curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (25)   On the east side of East Avenue: one space, 27 feet south of the
south curb line of 6th Avenue;
      (26)   On the west side of East Avenue: one space, 38 feet south of the
south curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (27)   On the south side of 6th Avenue: one space, 29 feet east of the
east curb line of West Avenue;
      (28)   On the south side of the South Park Alley: two spaces, 98 feet
east of the center line of Morton Street and two spaces, 407 feet west of the
centerline of Morton Street;
      (29)   Handicap parking spaces in the following municipal parking lots as
listed:
         (a)   Two swimming pool parking lot;
         (b)   Two parking lot at 3rd Avenue and East Avenue;
         (c)   Two parking lot at 4th Avenue and Grant Street;
         (d)   Two parking lot at 5th Avenue and Garfield Street;
         (e)   One west parking lot on West Avenue between 3rd Avenue and 4th
Avenue;
         (f)   One east parking lot on West Avenue between 3rd Avenue and 4th
Avenue; and
         (g)   Two parking lot at 5th Avenue and Grant Street.
      (30)   On the east side of West Avenue: one space, 22 feet long, 30 feet
north of the north curb line of 7th Avenue;
      (31)   On the east side of West Avenue: one space, 23 feet north of the
north curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (32)   On the south side of 6th Avenue: one space, 25 feet east of the
east curb line of East Avenue; and
      (33)   On the north side of 3rd Avenue: one space, 31 feet west of the
west curb line of East Avenue.
(2005 Code, § 5-427) (Ord. 2376, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. 2467, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 5-428 RESTRICTED PARKING ZONE; COMMERCIAL BUS; LIBRARY; SCHOOL BUS; FIRE
ZONES; TEN-MINUTE PARKING ZONE; FIRE DEPARTMENT PARKING; NO PARKING OR STOPPING
ZONE.
   (A)   Library. The following library zones shall be for the exclusive use of
library patrons with a time limit of one hour. Said space shall be posted by a
sign designating it as a library zone: on the north side of 6th Avenue, a space
94 feet long, beginning 45 feet east of the east curb line of East Avenue.
   (B)   School bus. The following school bus zones shall be for the exclusive
use of school buses during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on days school
is in session said space shall be posted by a sign designated it as a school
bus zone. The adjacent curb shall be painted yellow:
      (1)   On the west side of Sherman Street: a space 67 feet long, beginning
90 feet north of the north curb line of 10th Avenue;
      (2)   On the west side of Morton Street: a space 140 feet long, beginning
22 feet south of the south curb line of 9th Avenue; and
      (3)   On the north side of 12th Avenue: a space 94 feet long, beginning
108 feet west of the west curb line of Grant Street.
   (C)   Fire zones. The following fire zones shall be used exclusively for
access to premises to suppress
fires or perform rescue. No other stopping or parking is allowed. Said space
shall be posted by a no parking sign. The adjacent curb shall be painted
yellow:
      (1)   On the west side of Grant Street: a space 100 feet long, beginning
12 feet south of the south curb line of 5th Avenue;
      (2)   On the north side of 4th Avenue: a space 30 feet long, beginning 29
feet east of the east curb line of East Avenue;
      (3)   On the west side of Grant Street: a space 100 feet long, beginning
12 feet south of the south curb line of 5th Avenue; and
      (4)   On the north side of 4th Avenue: a space 30 feet long, beginning 29
feet east of the east curb line of East Avenue.
   (D)   Ten-minute parking zone. The following ten-minute parking zones are
for ten-minute parking only. A vehicle shall not be stopped or parked or left
unattended for more than ten minutes. Said spaces shall be posted by a sign
designating it is a ten-minute parking zone. No person shall park any motor
vehicle in any parking space in such zone for more than ten minutes
consecutively from the time such motor vehicle is first parked in such parking
space, during the hours from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday:
      (1)   Both sides of Fifth (5th) Avenue, extending east from East Avenue
to the alley between East Avenue and Garfield Street; and
      (2)   On the east side of East Avenue: two spaces, beginning south 31
feet from the south curb line of Fifth (5th) Avenue.
   (E)   Fire Department personnel vehicle parking zone. The following parking
zone shall be restricted to vehicles displaying a permit identifying such
vehicle belonging to or being used by Fire Department personnel. This zone
shall only be used for official Fire Department business: on the south side of
5th Avenue, a space 84 feet long, beginning 39 feet from the west curb line of
Garfield Street.
   (F)   No parking or stopping zone. The following no parking or stopping zone
shall be posted by a sign and the curb painted yellow. No person shall allow
his or her vehicle to park, stop or become stalled for any reason including the
loading and unloading of passengers within this zone:
      (1)   On the north and south side of 14th Avenue: a space, 214 feet long,
beginning 107 feet east of the centerline of Grant Street and ending 107 feet
west of the centerline of Grant Street;
      (2)   On the west side of Lincoln Street: a space, 154 feet long
beginning at the south curb line of 11th Avenue;
      (3)   On the west side of Lincoln Street: a space, 182 feet long
beginning 254 feet south of the curb line of 11th Avenue; and
      (4)   On the north side of 10th Avenue: a space, ten feet long beginning
250 feet west of the west curb line of Lincoln Street.
(2005 Code, § 5-428)
ARTICLE 5: OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
Section
   
5-501   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
5-502   Lights; trailer
   
5-503   License plates
   
5-504   Equipment and maintenance
   
5-505   Unobstructed view
   
5-506   Muffler
   
5-507   Loads; projecting and spilling
   
5-508   Bicycles; lights
§ 5-501 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, or public highway
without having first registered the same, and without first having obtained a
motor vehicle operator’s license as provided by the laws of the state. It shall
be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street or alley
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(2005 Code, § 5-501)
§ 5-502 LIGHTS; TRAILER.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the
municipal streets, such trailer shall carry rear lights as required of any
other motor vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-502)
§ 5-503 LICENSE PLATES.
   The license plates, required on every motor vehicle by laws of the state, or
by laws of any other state while such vehicle is operated within the corporate
limits, shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust or other blurring matter
so they will be plainly visible at all times, and shall be attached in such
manner as to be clearly readable at a distance of 100 feet and, under no
circumstances, shall they be obstructed by any portion of the vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-503)
§ 5-504 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or public highways
of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control
the movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means
of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and
sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices, and
shall have from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise,
two or more whitish lights on the front thereof, and one on each side, which
lights and all other lighting devices, including tail lights, shall be in
compliance with the laws of the state. No person shall operate any vehicle
which is equipped with an electric light or lights that confuse travelers or
pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within the corporate limits. Every motor
vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display clearance lights as
required by the laws of the state. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in
good working order; provided, motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake
and headlight. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet;
provided, no vehicle except herein provided, shall be equipped with; nor shall
any person use upon a vehicle, any siren or horn otherwise than as a reasonable
warning; nor shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to
make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and provided further that, every
Police, Fire Department and fire patrol vehicle, ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren
or whistle of the type approved by the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 5-504)
§ 5-505 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street,
any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent material upon the
front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than
a certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on
a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 5-505)
§ 5-506 MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 5-506)
§ 5-507 LOADS; PROJECTING AND SPILLING.
   (A)   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of
the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of
such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length and width
shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the extreme rear end of
such load.
(2005 Code, § 5-507)
   (B)   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel,
rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to
prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(2005 Code, § 5-508)
§ 5-508 BICYCLES; LIGHTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon the streets of the city from one-half
hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise shall carry one white light
plainly visible from the front and one red light or reflector plainly visible
from the rear.
(2005 Code, § 5-509)
ARTICLE 6: MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, MINIBIKES, GO-KARTS, ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND
SKATEBOARDS WITH MOTORS
Section
   
5-601   Motorcycle; lights
   
5-602   Go-karts, minibikes, electric scooters and skateboard with motor;
unlawful operation
   
5-603   Go-karts and minibikes; emergencies and parades; public lands; traffic
laws inapplicable
   
5-604   Mopeds; defined; operator’s license required; traffic regulations
applicable; operation; use of traffic lanes; equipment
§ 5-601 MOTORCYCLE; LIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways
from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, unless the
same shall be equipped with at least one, and not more than two headlights,
plainly visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least
500 feet to the rear thereof.
   (B)   Provided, said lamps shall comply with the requirements and
limitations of the statutes of the state.
(2005 Code, § 5-601)
§ 5-602 GO-KARTS, MINIBIKES, ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND SKATEBOARD WITH MOTOR;
UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a go-kart, minibike,
electric scooter and skateboard with motor upon any street or highway within
the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   For purposes of this article, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor
vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an
engine rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or a seat
height less than 25 inches from the ground or any other two-wheel motor vehicle
primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(2005 Code, § 5-602)
§ 5-603 GO-KARTS AND MINIBIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES; PUBLIC LANDS; TRAFFIC
LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   (A)   Go-karts and minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this
article during any public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly
organized units of any recognized charitable, social, educational or community
service organization.
(2005 Code, § 5-603)
   (B)   Go-karts and minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned
by the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 5-604)
   (C)   The provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 17 shall not be
applicable to the owners and operators of any go-kart or minibike.
(2005 Code, § 5-605)
§ 5-604 MOPEDS; DEFINED; OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
APPLICABLE; OPERATION; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, MOPED shall mean a bicycle with
fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission
and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, which
produces no more than two brake horsepower and is capable of propelling the
bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30 mph on level ground.
Mopeds, their owners and their operators shall be subject to Neb. RS Ch. 10,
Art. 4, and amendments thereto, but shall be exempt from the requirements of
Neb. RS Ch. 10, Art. 1, 3, 5 and 17, and amendments thereto.
(2005 Code, § 5-606)
   (B)   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or public
highways of the municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license or a valid school or learner’s permit.
(2005 Code, § 5-607)
   (C)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under this chapter, and amendments thereto, except for those provisions
of such sections which by their nature can have no application. Such
regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall be operated
upon any street, alley or public highway within the municipality or upon any
path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the use of
mopeds. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of 25
mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(2005 Code, § 5-608)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
      (2)   Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any
package, bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both
hands on the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any
person ride, in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of
the moped or the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall
attach himself or herself or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway. No
operator of a moped shall operator such vehicle without a helmet.
(2005 Code, § 5-609)
   (E)   (1)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any
street or highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less and no
vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full
use of such lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds or motorcycles
operated two abreast in a single lane.
      (2)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. Mopeds shall not be operated more than two
abreast in a single lane. Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an
authorized speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
(2005 Code, § 5-610)
   (F)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than
15 inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(2005 Code, § 5-611)
ARTICLE 7: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
5-701   Equipment
   
5-702   Unlawful acts
   
5-703   Public lands
   
5-704   Enforcement; penalty
§ 5-701 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be registered
with the state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a
public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one
tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side forward of the handle bars and with brakes as prescribed by the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application.
(2005 Code, § 5-701)
§ 5-702 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; and
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(2005 Code, § 5-702)
§ 5-703 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing body, or
in the case of an emergency.
(2005 Code, § 5-703)
§ 5-704 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   Any peace officer, including a conservation officer, may enforce the
provisions relating to snowmobiles. Any person convicted of violating any rule
or regulation dealing with snowmobiles shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $100.
(2005 Code, § 5-704)
ARTICLE 8: SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
5-801   Establishment of routes
   
5-802   Declaration of emergency
   
5-803   Notification of media
   
5-804   Arterial street parking prohibited
   
5-805   Residential street parking; when prohibited
   
5-806   Stalled vehicles
   
5-807   Provisions take precedence
   
5-808   Police authority
   
5-809   Snow removal; sidewalks, driveways and parking lots; violations,
penalties
§ 5-801 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROUTES.
   The Mayor and/or Municipal Services Director is hereby authorized to
establish snow emergency routes upon any street or highway of the city and
shall, at his or her discretion, place appropriate signs, marks, lines, signals
or other traffic-control devices indicating the existence of snow emergency
routes. The designation of any street, highway or portion thereof as a snow
emergency route shall in no way affect any previous designation of that street
or highway as an arterial or other road designation.
(2005 Code, § 5-801) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-802 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Mayor of the city or the Municipal Services Director shall
find, on the basis of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain or on the basis of
an official forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau of snow, sleet or freezing
rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic
be expedited and that parking on city snow emergency routes be prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor or the Municipal
Services Director may place into effect a parking prohibition on all snow
emergency routes by declaring that emergency conditions exist. In such
declaration of emergency conditions, the Mayor or Municipal Services Director
shall state the time that said emergency shall be in effect and from the time
so designated, all parking of vehicles on snow emergency routes shall be
prohibited. While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow
to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route. Once in
effect, the parking prohibition imposed under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by declaration of the Mayor or Municipal Services
Director. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking
at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(2005 Code, § 5-802) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-803 NOTIFICATION OF MEDIA.
   (A)   The Mayor or Municipal Services Director shall cause each declaration
of a snow emergency made by him or her, pursuant to this article, to be
publicly announced by means of broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations
with a normal operating range covering the city, and he or she may cause such
declaration to be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when
feasible. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the Mayor or
Municipal Services Director, including the time it became or will become
effective, and shall specify the streets or areas affected. The Mayor or
Municipal Services Director shall make or cause to be made a record of each
time and date when any declaration is announced to the public by issuing an
executive order as soon after the declaration of an emergency as is feasible.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor or Municipal Services Director shall find that some
or all of the conditions which gave rise to a parking prohibition placed in
effect pursuant to the provisions of this article no longer exist, he or she
may declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective
immediately upon announcement or at a later specified time.
(2005 Code, § 5-803) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-804 ARTERIAL STREET PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Whenever the mayor or Municipal Services Director shall find, on the basis
of falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or on the basis of an official forecast
by the U.S. Weather Bureau of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather
conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and
that parking on city arterial streets be prohibited or restricted for snow
plowing and other purposes, the Mayor or Municipal Services Director may put
into effect a parking prohibition on all streets designated as arterial streets
in the code or by resolution of the Mayor and Council declaring that an
emergency exists and that all parking on said streets so designated will be
prohibited. In such declaration, the Mayor or Municipal Services Director shall
state the date and time on which such parking prohibition shall take effect.
The prohibition against parking shall remain in effect until terminated by
announcement of the Mayor or Municipal Services Director.
(2005 Code, § 5-804) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-805 RESIDENTIAL STREET PARKING; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Whenever the Mayor or Municipal Services Director shall find on the basis of
accumulated snow that conditions make it necessary that parking on residential
streets be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, he or
she may put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of or on all residential
streets by declaring that parking be prohibited on one side of the residential
streets, designating either the odd or even address numbered side, at his or
her discretion. In such declaration the Mayor or Municipal Services Director
shall state the date and time on which such parking prohibition shall take
effect. The prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by announcement
of the Mayor or Municipal Services Director, who may then declare that there
shall be in effect a parking prohibition on the opposite side of those
residential streets designated above, which prohibition shall remain in effect
until terminated by announcement of the Mayor or Municipal Services Director.
(2005 Code, § 5-805) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-806 STALLED VEHICLES.
   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route shall allow
such vehicle to become stalled or stuck. If a motor vehicle should become
stalled for any reason, whether or not in violation of this article, on any
snow emergency route on which there is a parking prohibition in effect, the
person operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to have the vehicle
towed or pushed off of the roadway of such snow emergency route, either onto
the nearest cross street which is not a snow emergency route, or other
appropriate location. No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in
the roadway of a snow emergency route, except for the purpose of securing
assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a
nearby vehicle repair shop, service station or other place of assistance and
return without delay.
(2005 Code, § 5-806) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-807 PROVISIONS TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this article which becomes effective by declaration of the
Mayor or Municipal Services Director upon the occurrence of a snow emergency,
while temporarily in effect, shall take precedence over conflicting provisions
of law normally in effect; except that, it shall not take precedence over
provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized
emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 5-807) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-808 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a street or to
a lot, garage or other similar facility designated by the Police Department
when:
   (A)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect;
   (B)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating said vehicle does
not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this article;
   (C)   The vehicle is parked or stalled on an arterial route on which there
is a parking prohibition in effect and is interfering or about to interfere
with snow removal operations; and/or
   (D)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this article and is interfering or
about to interfere with snow removal operations.
(2005 Code, § 5-808) (Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 5-809 SNOW REMOVAL; SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING LOTS; VIOLATIONS,
PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   City snowplows will not clear private driveways. The snow placed
in driveways and on sidewalks by city snowplows is a natural result of clearing
the streets and is the responsibility of the property owner or occupant to
remove.
      (2)   Snow from sidewalks, driveways and parking lots may not be placed
on city streets with the following exceptions:
         (a)   By city employees in the performance of work related duties; and
         (b)   By businesses located in the area from Railroad Street to 6th
Avenue and from Grant Street to Garfield Street (commonly known as downtown) in
an effort to establish a clearance for the conducting of business. Only snow
from downtown sidewalks may be placed in city streets within 36 hours of the
cessation of snowfall.
(2005 Code, § 5-809)
   (B)   (1)   Each 24-hour period commencing with the declaration of a snow
emergency shall be deemed to be a separate day. Every day or part thereof that
any violation of any provision of this article shall continue beyond the first
day shall constitute a separate offense and may be charged as a second or
subsequent offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of at least $15 and not exceeding $100
if such violation be a first offense; or at least $25 and not exceeding $200 if
such violation be a second offense and charged as such; or at least $35 and not
exceeding $300 if such violation is a third or subsequent offense and charged
as such; and in addition thereto shall pay the costs of prosecution.
      (3)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall
also, if his or her motor vehicle was removed by or at the request of the city,
pay such charges for removal and storage as are from time to time set by
resolution of the Mayor and Council of the city.
(2005 Code, § 5-810)
(Ord. 2328, passed 2-15-2011)
ARTICLE 9: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
5-901   Constitute nuisance
   
5-902   Restricted on city property
   
5-903   Abolition of liability
   
5-904   Notification of owner
   
5-905   Service of notice
   
5-906   Charges
   
5-907   Lien
   
5-908   Receipt required
   
5-909   Impoundment no defense
   
5-910   Right of entry
   
5-911   Sale
   
5-912   Disposal
§ 5-901 CONSTITUTE NUISANCE.
   It is hereby expressly found and determined that the unrestricted parking or
storage of vehicles on the public streets or on city property is an obstruction
and hazard to the proper and efficient flow of traffic and use of the streets
and city property and constitutes a nuisance to the citizens and residents of
the city. It is hereby expressly found and determined that the storage of
unlicenced vehicles on private property is a hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and residents of the city and constitutes a nuisance to
the citizens and residents of the city.
(2005 Code, § 5-901)
§ 5-902 RESTRICTED ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave standing any unlicenced vehicle on any
street, sidewalk, terrace or on any city property at any time, nor for any
period of time.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave standing any licensed vehicle on any
sidewalk or no parking zone at any time nor for any period of time.
   (C)   No person shall park or leave standing any licensed vehicle on any
terrace. A TERRACE shall be defined as the space on each side of a street
between the property line and the curb line.
   (D)   No person shall park or leave standing any licensed vehicle on the
traveled portion of any street or on city property for more than 72 hours, nor
in a two-hour parking zone for more than ten hours, nor in a controlled public
parking area for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (E)   Any vehicle so parked or left standing where so prohibited or for more
than the permitted time limits shall be presumptively abandoned.
(2005 Code, § 5-902)
§ 5-903 ABOLITION OF LIABILITY.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to remove or have
removed any such presumptively abandoned vehicle and to convey the same to a
storage pound and to there store the same until redeemed or disposed of at the
risk and expense of the owner thereof. Neither the Chief of Police nor the city
shall be liable to the owner for any loss or damage to such vehicle in the
removal or storage thereof.
(2005 Code, § 5-903)
§ 5-904 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   Upon removal of such vehicle, the Chief of Police shall notify the owner
thereof of such impoundment and that the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the lien for removal and storage charges at any time prior to the
next public sale of abandoned property. Such notice shall be in writing, shall
describe the vehicle with as much particularity as to year, make, model, color,
body type, serial or identification number as is obtainable from any
registration certificate attached to the vehicle or is obtainable upon
reasonable inquiry from any County Clerk or County Treasurer if such vehicle
bears a state license plate or is obtainable upon reasonable inquiry from any
other state if such vehicle bears a license plate issued by another state or is
reasonably obtainable from observation of the vehicle. Such notice shall advise
the amount of removal charge and rate of accrual of storage charges and that it
will be offered for sale at any time after 30 days from impoundment to satisfy
the lien for such charges.
(2005 Code, § 5-904)
§ 5-905 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   All notices provided by this article shall be served upon any one or more of
the last registered owners at the address shown on any registration certificate
attached to the vehicle or obtainable upon reasonable inquiry from any County
Clerk or County Treasurer if such vehicle bears a state license plate issued
during the current or preceding license period or obtainable upon reasonable
inquiry from any other state if such vehicle bears a license plate issued by
another state during the current or preceding license period. If the foregoing
information as to identity and address of the owner cannot be obtained as
aforesaid, such notice shall be posted on the vehicle. In addition, if such
vehicle was located on private property, such notice shall also be served on
the owner or occupant of the property at the location of the property. All such
notices may be served in person or by first class United States mail or by
posting on the vehicle or private property. Notice shall be deemed to have been
received when personally served or five days after mailing thereof or five days
after posting on the vehicle or private property.
(2005 Code, § 5-905)
§ 5-906 CHARGES.
   The charges for removal and storage to be paid by the owner prior to
redemption of the vehicle shall be as from time to time set by resolution of
the Mayor and Council.
(2005 Code, § 5-906)
§ 5-907 LIEN.
   In order to redeem any impounded vehicle, the owner shall pay the removal
and storage charges which shall be a lien against such vehicle; and, in
addition, if the vehicle is of a type required to be licensed, shall procure
for and affix to such vehicle current license plates and registration before
removing it from the storage pound under its own power.
(2005 Code, § 5-907)
§ 5-908 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a duplicate receipt for all money
collected for redemption of vehicles. The original receipt shall be delivered
to the person redeeming the same; the duplicate receipt shall be delivered to
the City Treasurer on the first day of each month together with the amount of
money shown on such receipt. The money will be deposited to the Police Fund and
used to defray the cost of administration.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall keep a book in which a record of impounded
vehicles is kept. It shall show so much of the following information as is
available: the name of the owner; the description of the vehicle; license
number; date and hour of impounding; location before impounded; date of service
of notice; date and hour of release; and the amount of fee paid.
(2005 Code, § 5-908)
§ 5-909 IMPOUNDMENT NO DEFENSE.
   The fact that a vehicle is impounded and charge paid for towing and storage
shall not be a defense to a prosecution for violation of this article or other
provisions of the state statutes, this code or other ordinances of the city.
(2005 Code, § 5-909)
§ 5-910 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter upon private property at
all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting any vehicle unlawfully
parked thereon and for removing the same if it be presumptively abandoned under
the terms of this article. If consent to such entry be refused, the Chief of
Police is authorized to apply for an inspection warrant under the laws of the
state. After obtaining such warrant, it shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with or prevent the Chief of Police from entering on private property
for the purpose of carrying out his or her duties in the enforcement of this
article.
(2005 Code, § 5-910)
§ 5-911 SALE.
   All vehicles which have not been redeemed by the owner by payment of removal
and storage charges prior to the next public sale shall be abandoned vehicles
if at least 30 days shall have elapsed since the notice of impoundment was
served. Public sales of abandoned vehicles to satisfy the lien of removal and
storage charges shall be held at such times as the Chief of Police shall
determine at the place where such vehicles are stored or at such other place as
the Chief of Police shall designate. Notice of each such sale shall be
published once a week for two successive weeks in some paper of general
circulation in the city and the first publication shall be at least 15 days
prior to the date of sale. At such sale, the Chief of Police shall offer such
vehicles for sale to the highest bidder for cash; provided that, the owner of
such vehicle may not purchase the same for less than the removal and storage
charges on such vehicle; and, provided further that, neither the Chief of
Police nor any police officer of the city shall purchase any such vehicle at
any such sale. The proceeds of sale of any vehicle shall be delivered to the
City Treasurer for deposit to the General Fund and used first to pay the cost
of removal and storage of the vehicle and expense of sale; any excess of funds
shall be held for the owner of the vehicle without interest. No vehicle of a
type required to be licensed or registered shall be removed under its own power
until the purchaser shall have procured for and affixed to such vehicle current
license plates and registration.
(2005 Code, § 5-911)
§ 5-912 DISPOSAL.
   Any vehicle which remains unsold at the conclusion of such sale may, at the
option of the city, be junked or disposed of in any manner or may be retained
for sale at future public sales.
(2005 Code, § 5-912)
ARTICLE 10: TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP
Section
   
5-1001   Traffic-Control Map
§ 5-1001 TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP.
   (A)   The location, placement, hours and designated description of speed
limits, signals, stop signs, parking zones and parking restrictions are hereby
established as shown on the map entitled “Traffic- Control Map of the City of
Holdrege, Nebraska” dated July 3, 1990 and as amended and signed by the Mayor
and City Clerk, and hereafter referred to as the “Traffic-Control Map.”
   (B)   The Traffic-Control Map and all notations thereon, including this
amendment establishing one new stop sign at the southwest corner of 12th Avenue
and Logan Street as shown on the Traffic- Control Map, as well as all other
previous amendments to no parking zones, signs, signals, other parking
restrictions and traffic signs as noted in the existing Traffic-Control Map are
incorporated in this article by reference as though fully set out herein.
   (C)   The signed copy of the Traffic-Control Map shall be maintained in the
city offices. All dates and ordinance numbers of any amendments to the Traffic-
Control Map shall be promptly entered onto this official Traffic-Control Map.
This map shall be the final authority as to the status of traffic regulations
for all city streets and state highways within the city’s corporate limits.
   (D)   This article and Traffic-Control Map are adopted in accordance with
state law and based on the traffic study conducted by the Nebraska Department
of Roads in 1988, investigated and prepared by Taranto, Stanton and Tagge
Engineers in compliance with federal standards and state statutes, thereafter
adopted by the City Council on July 21, 1981, and shown by a certified copy of
authorization for speed limits from the Nebraska Department of Roads. The
traffic study and engineering investigation are incorporated in this article by
reference as though fully set out herein.
(2005 Code, § 5-1001) (Ord. 2366, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 2483, passed 1-21-
2025)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
5-1101   Violations; penalty
   
5-1102   Abatement of nuisance
§ 5-1101 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2006 Code, § 5-1101)
§ 5-1102 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(2006 Code, § 5-1102)
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ANIMALS
      
2.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
      
3.   LITTER
      
4.   MISCELLANEOUS INFRACTIONS
      
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ANIMALS
Section
   
6-100   Definitions
   
6-101   Rabies vaccination
   
6-102   Dogs; license fee
   
6-103   Dogs; license tag
   
6-104   Dogs; wrongful licensing
   
6-105   Dogs; running at large
   
6-106   Dogs; potentially dangerous
   
6-107   Application of article; exceptions
   
6-108   Access by utility workers
   
6-109   Dogs; interference with officials
   
6-110   Number of dogs and cats limited
   
6-111   Killing and poisoning dogs and cats
   
6-112   Dogs; barking and offensive
   
6-113   Dogs; fighting
   
6-114   Dogs; personal property; owner liable for damages
   
6-115   Dogs; impounding and reclamation
   
6-116   Dogs; Animal Shelter
   
6-117   Dogs; excrement to be removed and disposed
   
6-118   Dogs; physical abuse; treatment; basic needs
   
6-119   Dogs; tethering
   
6-120   Dogs; dangerous; confinement required; warning signs
   
6-121   Reserved
   
6-122   Appeal procedure
   
6-123   Animals; regulations
   
6-124   Animals; running at large
   
6-125   Animals; wild
   
6-126   Animals; cruelty prohibited
   
6-127   Animals; killing and injuring
   
6-128   Animals in unattended vehicle
   
6-129   Authority to enter upon premises; impoundment
   
6-130   Animals; capture impossible
   
6-131   Penalty for violation
   
6-132   Dogs; dangerous; disposal by court order
§ 6-100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. For the purposes of §§
6-100 to
6-132 , the Police Chief and members of the Police Department shall be charged
with the enforcement of animal ordinances within the city and considered the
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an Animal Control Authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of §§
6-100 to
6-132  or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   CAT. Any cat, either male or female.
   DOG. Any dog, either male or female.
   FOWL. Any two legged, feathered, winged creature.
   OWNER. 
      (1)   Any person who shall own, possess, keep, harbor, have charge or
control of, permit or allow any animal, to be in or upon any premises occupied
by him/her or under his/her charge or control. In addition thereto, any person
who shall permit any animal to habitually remain on, or be lodged or fed within
such person's house, yard or premises for a period of ten days or more shall be
deemed to be the owner and possessor of such animal and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
      (2)   If a family group of persons occupy such premises the owner shall
be deemed to be the husband or father if there be one; otherwise the wife or
mother if there be one; otherwise such other person as is customarily regarded
as the head of such family group.
      (3)   This term shall not apply to veterinarians temporarily maintaining
on their premises animals owned by other persons for a period of not more than
30 days.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, company or corporation.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint which is on the premises of its
owner; or if such is not on owners premises, is on leash or is securely
confined in a motor vehicle being driven or parked on the streets.
   RUN AT LARGE. An animal which is off the premises of its owner and not under
restraint.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-101 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog, cat or ferret more
than three months of age within the city, shall have such animal vaccinated
with an inactive virus anti-rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian and shall
be revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the Nebraska Department of Health.
   (B)   For every dog, cat or ferret vaccinated for rabies, the veterinarian
shall issue a tag sufficient to identify the name of the veterinarian.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own, keep or harbor a
dog, cat or ferret not to display the current vaccination tag on such animal.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-102 DOGS; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Every person owning, keeping, possessing, or harboring any dog more
than three months of age within the city shall pay a fee to the City Clerk as
follows: $12 for each unaltered male or female dog; $6 for each spayed female
or neutered male dog.
   (B)   Such fee shall be due and payable before February 1 each year, but may
be paid after December 1 of the previous year. The city shall send a warning
letter to those dog owners who had tags the previous year and have failed to
get new tags by February 1. A delinquent fee of $25 shall be assessed after
March 31 of each year.
   (C)   The City Police when directed by the City Clerk shall assist the City
Clerk in the collection of such annual fee. All such fee money shall be
credited to the General Fund of the city except for such portion to be
submitted to the state under Neb. RS 54-603.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 2343, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 6-103 DOGS; LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, and proof of rabies vaccination
the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and
a metallic tag for each dog so licensed.
   (B)   The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until the January 31 following such licensing.
   (C)   In the event a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence the
original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate tag for the balance of the year and
charge one-half the annual fee for each duplicate tag so issued.
   (D)   All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the
General Fund of the City. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue
tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
   (E)   The licensing requirements of this article shall not apply to
hospital, clinics, and veterinarians, or to any dog belonging to a non-resident
of the city and kept within the city for not longer than 30 days, provided all
such dogs while in the city, shall at all times be kept within a building
enclosure or vehicle, or be under restraint.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-104 DOGS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license other than that issued by the Municipal
Clerk for that dog(s), nor shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog or non-neutered male dog with a
license prescribed for a neutered male dog or spayed female dog.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-105DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring,
walking or having the care, custody or control of any dog within the city to
permit the same to run at large or be off the premises occupied by such person
at any time except when such animal is under restraint.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-106 DOGS; DANGEROUS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor or have under his or her control, any
dangerous or vicious animal. For the purposes of this section:
   (A)   A DANGEROUS DOG means a dog that, according to the records of an
Animal Control Authority has:
      (1)   Killed a human being;
      (2)   Inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical treatment;
      (3)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (4)   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by an
Animal Control Authority, the owner has received notice of such determination,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   (B)   (1)   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog under subdivision
(A)(2) of this section if the individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the dog at the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog under subdivision (A)
(4) of this section if the injury, damage, or threat was sustained by an
individual who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in
Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521, was committing any other tort upon the
property of the owner of the dog, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
      LIVESTOCK. Includes buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal
in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge, wildlife area, or nature center intended to
be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. 
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
            4.   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-107 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article do not apply to a law enforcement dog being
used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's
official duties or professional responsibilities.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-108 ACCESS BY UTILITY WORKERS.
   The owner or keeper of any dog must allow access to any utility service
meter by any utility personnel.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-109 DOGS; INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Animal Control Officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by the
provisions of this article, or to break open, or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the Animal Shelter, or
other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-110 NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS LIMITED.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of any dog or cats shall keep, harbor, or maintain
in, about, or upon the premises occupied by such owner as his or her residence
or household more than three dogs and three cats each over four months of age
at any one time.
   (B)   Offspring of any dog or cat shall not count toward the maximum number
of dogs or cats allowed, for a period of four months after the birth of said
offspring. However, only one exempt litter of cats or dogs may be kept in a
household at any one time.
   (C)   For the purposes of this article, the term OWNER or KEEPER shall
include the head of any family and all family members and guests, it being the
intention of this article to limit the total number of dogs and cats to three
each per household.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-111 KILLING AND POISONING DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to kill, administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort or in any manner to injure, maim, destroy, or attempt to
injure, maim, or destroy any dog or cat that is the property of another person,
or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is accessible to a dog
or cat.
   (B)   Provided, this section shall not apply to Municipal Police Officers
acting within their power and duty.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-112 DOGS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks,
streets, or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   Upon complaint, the Municipal Police shall investigate the complaint
and, if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to
silence and restrain such dog or issue a citation to the owner/keeper of the
dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to an
Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-113 DOGS; FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-114 DOGS; PERSONAL PROPERTY; OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   Dogs are hereby declared to be personal property for all intents and
purposes, and the owner or owners of any dog or dogs shall be liable for any
and all damages that may accrue:
   (A)   To any person, other than a trespasser, by reason of having been
bitten by any such dog or dogs; and
   (B)   To any person, firm, or corporation by reason of such dog or dogs
killing, wounding, injuring, worrying, or chasing any person or persons or any
sheep or other domestic animals belonging to such person, firm, or corporation;
and
   (C)   To destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging
to another person. Such damage may be recovered in any court having
jurisdiction of the amount claimed.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-115 DOGS; IMPOUNDMENT AND RECLAMATION.
   (A)   If any dog is picked up, the officer shall give notice of the fact of
such taking by posting one notice thereof on the bulletin board at the Police
Station in the city for a period of five days. No dog shall be euthanized or
destroyed until the expiration of the five-day period. During such period the
owner of such dog may reclaim their dog upon payment to the city having paid in
cash:
      (1)   The amount per day for boarding of such dog as is from time to time
set by resolution of the Mayor and Council; and
      (2)   For the taking of such dog in each license year $25 if it be the
first time such dog has been picked up or $50 if it be the second time such dog
has been picked up or $75 if it be the third or subsequent time such dog has
been picked up; and
      (3)   If such dog does not have about its neck the tag or plate provided
for in § 6-103, a proper tag or plate shall be secured from the City Clerk and
pay any appropriate fees as provided in § 6-102 and affixed such tag about the
neck of such dog prior to being reclaimed; and
      (4)   Such dog shall be vaccinated for rabies as required by law if not
already in compliance therewith; and
      (5)   Pay the cost of any medical care costs expended by the city for
such impounded animal.
   (B)   If not reclaimed by the owner within such period, any other person may
adopt said dog upon paying the cost of impoundment and any medical fees to the
Animal Shelter housing such animal and compliance with the condition above
provided for reclamation of dogs by owners; otherwise such dog shall be
euthanized.
   (C)   Any impounded dog not reclaimed as provided by in this section shall
become the property of the city and the city shall have the power to give away
such dog to a reputable person for adoption; or to cause such dog to be
humanely euthanized.
   (D)   The owner of such animal shall be liable to the city for any costs
incurred for the impoundment and destruction of such animal.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-116 DOGS; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The Animal Shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping, and destruction of dogs. The said Shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated, and lighted.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-117 DOGS; EXCREMENT TO BE REMOVED AND DISPOSED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of, to cause or permit a dog
to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by that
person, unless the person has in his or her immediate possession a device for
the removal of excrement and for such person to fail to remove excrement left
by such dog to a proper receptacle.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-118 DOGS; PHYSICAL ABUSE; TREATMENT; BASIC NEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously kill,
maim, disfigure torture, beat with a stick, chain, club or other object;
mutilate, burn, or scald with any substance, or otherwise cruelly set upon any
animal, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive off vicious,
trespassing or aggressive animals. It shall further be unlawful for any person
to knowingly, intentionally, or carelessly cause or allow any animal to endure
reasonable or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or injury. It shall be unlawful
for any person or entity keeping, harboring, or caring for any animal to fail,
refuse or neglect to provide such animal with proper food, drink, shade,
shelter, physical maintenance and veterinary care. Proper food, drink, shade,
shelter, physical maintenance and veterinary care shall require that:
      (1)   Each animal shall, at suitable intervals and at least once every 24
hours, receive a quantity of food suitable for the species' physical condition
and age, sufficient to maintain an adequate level of nutrition for the animal.
      (2)   Each animal shall have available at all times an adequate supply of
clean, fresh, potable water. If water pans or dishes are to be used, such pans
or dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner that
prevents tipping.
      (3)   Each animal shall have convenient access to shelter throughout the
year. Any fences and or shelter shall not be placed in the front yard of the
property and any shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and from the elements. The entrance to
the shelter should have a flap to keep the cold out and the warmth in. Straw,
wood chips, towels and blankets can be used for bedding. Bedding should be
routinely checked for moisture and replace it when wet. It shall be of
sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand, turn around, and lie down
in a natural manner. Any shelter which does not protect the animal from
temperature extremes or precipitation, excessive ammonia levels, or which does
not provide adequate ventilation or drainage, shall not comply with this
section. The shelter and any space accessible to the animal and all bedding for
the animal shall be maintained in a manner which keeps the animal reasonably
clean, dry, comfortable, and at an appropriate temperature and minimizes the
risk of the animal contracting disease, being injured or becoming infested with
parasites.
      (4)   Each animal shall receive care and medical treatment for injuries,
parasites, and diseases, sufficient to maintain the animal in good health and
to minimize suffering.
      (5)   Any enclosure in which an animal is kept shall be constructed of
material, and in a manner to minimize the risk of injury to the animal, and
shall encompass sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good condition.
When a dog is confined outside a residence, the following minimum space
requirements shall be used:
         Size of Dog                                   Pen Size
Extra large (over 26 inches at withers or over 75
pounds)                     48 square feet
Large (over 20 inches and up to 26 inches at withers or
not over 75 pounds)                                        40 square feet
Medium (over 12 inches and up to 20 inches at withers or
not over 50 pounds)                                        32 square feet
Small (12 inches or less at withers or not over 20
pounds)                     24 square feet
An additional 16 square feet shall be required for each dog sharing the pen
with another. The minimum pen size includes a shelter. The pen height shall not
be over six feet tall.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-119 DOGS; TETHERING.
   No animals shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any rope, chain or cord
that is directly attached to the animal's neck. Animals that must be tied,
hitched or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness, not of the choker type, provided that the proper use of choker collars
in the training of animals shall not be prohibited. The tying device shall be
attached to the animal's collar or harness and shall be at least ten feet in
length.
   (A)   Tethering shall not exceed 30 minutes in length at any one time and
shall not be the sole means by which the dog is contained.
   (B)   When adequate room is available the dog is to be tethered in the back
yard.
   (C)   A dog tethered must be no closer than six feet to a public sidewalk.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-120 DOGS; DANGEROUS; CONFINEMENT REQUIRED; WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
   (B)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (1)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If
the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground at a depth of at least one foot.
      (2)   The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements.
The pen or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner.
   (C)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property
where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access
and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning
sign shall be no less than 10 inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words
warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches
high on a black background.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-121 RESERVED.
§ 6-122 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following process shall apply to the appeal of any actions or
declarations of the Animal Control Authority or his/her designee pursuant to
this chapter. The City Council at any of its regular or special council meeting
shall serve as the Animal Control Board.
   (B)   Appeal. Any individual or entity desiring to appeal an order issued by
the Animal Control Authority to the Animal Control Board may do so by filing a
written notice of appeal with the Police Department as well as pay a $25 fee
within five days after notification of the Animal Control Authority order. The
notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall be delivered
personally or by certified mail to the Police Department.
      (1) Within five days of receiving the written notice of appeal, the
Police Department shall set the date for the hearing of the appeal with the
Animal Control Board. Said hearing shall be not less than five days nor more
than 30 days from the date the Police Department received the written notice of
appeal.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing may be personally served on the owner, a duly
designated representative, the owner's attorney, or an adult member of the
owner's household. Notice may also be served by first-class U.S. mail to the
address listed on the notice of appeal at least five days prior to the hearing
date.
      (3)   The hearing on appeal shall be subject to the Open Meetings Law,
and the notice required there under shall be posted and given as applicable.
The hearing will be conducted informally and the rules of evidence shall not
strictly apply.
      (4)   The city may be represented before the Board by the City Attorney's
office or the Police Department. The owner may represent him or herself or may
be represented by an attorney.
      (5)   The owner shall have the burden to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that the action of the Animal Control Authority or his or her designee
should be reversed.
      (6)   Each party will be given the opportunity to present their side of
the matter, including the presentation of witnesses and exhibits. Any exhibits
given to the Board members to examine shall become part of the permanent record
and will not be returned to the party submitting the same. At the conclusion of
the parties presentations, the Board may make a determination or may take the
matter under advisement. Ultimately, the Animal Control Board, by majority vote
of those present and voting, may affirm, modify or reverse the determination of
the Animal Control Authority.
      (7)   The proceedings before the board shall be recorded by one of the
following methods: electronic audio or video recording, certified court
reporter, or extensive notes of the testimony kept by a person designated by
the Board.
      (8)   Any participant shall be entitled to transcribe the proceeding at
his or her own expense.
      (9)   The decision of the Board shall be deemed final upon the
announcement of the vote of the Board at an open meeting of the Board. The
decision does not have to be reduced to writing, but shall be noted in the
minutes of the Board's meeting. If the order is reduced to writing, it shall
still be deemed to have been the final order of the Board at the time of
announcement.
      (10)   The final decision of the board may be appealed in accordance with
the provisions of Nebraska Law. If such an appeal is undertaken, and the animal
is being held in the custody of the city, then an appeal bond in the amount set
forth in the current schedule of fees shall be paid to and held by a local
veterinarian clinic of the owner's choice pending the outcome of the appeal.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-123 ANIMALS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either by themselves, their
agents, servants, or employees to have under such person's control, care, or
custody to keep or maintain within the corporate limits any beehive, livestock
animal or fowl including but not limited to horses, mules, sheep, cows, goats,
swine, rabbits, poultry, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, or pigeons unless and
until they have received an annual permit issued by the Chief of Police in his
sound discretion, with right of appeal to the City Council. There shall be no
fee for the permit and it may be revoked at any time when such animal(s) are
found to be noisy or produce unwholesome, noxious, annoying odors or
constitutes a nuisance or health hazard. This section shall not apply to fowl
kept for display in a public park or small caged birds kept solely as pets.
   (B)   Every person keeping any livestock, fowl, or domesticated animals
within the city, regardless of the number thereof, shall keep the premises in
which the same are kept or enclosed clean, sanitary, free from refuse or manure
and in such manner as not to produce unwholesome, noxious or annoying odors.
The presence of rats, mice or other rodents or the presence of an excessive
number of flies or other insects on any such premises shall be prima facie
evidence that such premises are maintained in violation of this Section and in
such manner as to constitute a nuisance or health hazard.
   (C)   Every person keeping any such live fowl or animals shall remove all
manure, decaying food and other refuse from such premises at least once every
seven days, and more often if necessary to keep down odors. All such refuse
shall be kept in air tight containers until and while being transported out of
the city for disposal. It shall be unlawful to permit any such refuse to remain
uncovered.
   (D)   No person shall keep or maintain any such live fowl or animals within
the city in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance or health hazard as
determined by the Board of Health. If the Board of Health finds the keeping of
such animals or fowl to be a nuisance, the person keeping such animals or fowl
shall forthwith abate such nuisance upon written notice from the Board of
Health to do so. The failure on the part of any person to so abate such
nuisance within three days after receiving such written notice shall make such
person subject to the penalties provided for the violation of this Code.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-124 ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, fowl or other animal to be driven or run at
large on any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another,
or to be tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to
reach or pass into any public way. This provision shall not apply to
domesticated cats.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-125 ANIMALS; WILD.
   (A)   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such
animals kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
   (B)   Potentially dangerous or poisonous animals not normally considered
domesticated shall be prohibited in the city and shall include but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Class Mammalia; Order Carnivora, Family Felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars) except commonly accepted domesticated
cats and hybrids involving same;
      (2)   Family Canidae (such as wolves, coyotes and fox) and hybrids
involving same;
      (3)   Family Mustelidae (such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks,
wolverines, opossums, mink, badgers, except for ferrets);
      (4)   Family Procyonidae (such as raccoons);
      (5)   Family Ursidae (such as bears);
      (6)   Order Primata (such as monkeys and chimpanzees);
      (7)   Order Chroptera (such as bats);
      (8)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras and their allies (Elapidae,
Hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (Crotiladae, Viperidae); Boosnslang and
Kirtland's tree snake; and Gila monster (Heleodermatidae) Family Crocodylidae
(such as alligators, crocodiles and caiman).
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-126 ANIMALS; CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, torture, overwork abuse
or cruelly beat, strike or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission or neglect
cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or
death to any animal whether such animal belongs to such person or to another,
except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away dangerous, vicious
or trespassing animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the custody or control of any
animal to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade or sufficient shelter or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any
such animal in hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather, or to carry any such
animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-127 ANIMALS; KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall put to death or injure any animal by the use of firearms,
stones, clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or
dangerous and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to
affect a capture of the said animal.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-128 ANIMALS IN UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, confine or allow such animal to be
confined in such a manner that it must remain in a motor vehicle or trailer
under conditions or for such periods of time that may endanger the health or
well being of the animal due to heat, cold, lack of food, water or any
circumstances which might cause suffering, disability or death.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-129 AUTHORITY TO ENTER UPON PREMISES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The City Police or Animal Control Officers shall have authority to
enter into and inspect any premises, dwelling, rooming units, barns and other
outbuildings, any part of the cartilage thereof, or any yard or other enclosure
to:
      (1)   Conduct any investigation of a animal alleged or suspected of being
dangerous, potentially dangerous, vicious, abused, neglected; or
      (2)   To apprehend, capture, secure and remove in a humane manner to an
animal shelter any animals whose owners are found to be in violation of the
provisions of §§
6-100 -
6-132; or
      (3)   To investigate any violation of this article; or
      (4)   To serve a citation upon a person for violation of this article.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Police Officer or Animal Control
Officer shall only make such entry upon consent, pursuant to a warrant or
otherwise as authorized by law.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-130 ANIMALS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Animal Control Authority shall have the authority to put to death any
animals showing dangerous tendencies, or characteristics of rabies, which make
capture impossible because of the danger involved. The animal shall be put to
death only as a last resort, when there is no other means of protection for the
officer or for a person or animal being attacked by the vicious animal.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-131 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
6-100 through
6-132 shall be fined $10 to $300 for each offense; and shall pay the costs of
prosecution; and payment of the charges for reclamation of such animal shall
not constitute a defense for prosecution for such violation.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 6-132 DOGS: DANGEROUS; DISPOSAL BY COURT ORDER.
   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Animal Control
Authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. 2297, passed 1-20-2009)
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
6-201   Impersonating an officer
   
6-202   Refusing to assist officer
   
6-203   Resisting officer
   
6-204   Abusing officer
   
6-205   Trespassing
   
6-206   Malicious destruction of property
   
6-207   Theft
   
6-208   Concealing stolen property
   
6-209   Arson
   
6-210   Injury to trees
   
6-211   Fire equipment
   
6-212   Drinking in public
   
6-213   Misrepresentation by minor
   
6-214   Minor in possession
   
6-215   Tobacco sale prohibited
   
6-216   Concealed weapons
   
6-217   Assaults
   
6-218   Terroristic threats
   
6-219   Disturbing the peace
   
6-220   Disorderly conduct
   
6-221   Criminal mischief
   
6-222   Disturbing an assembly
   
6-223   Window peeping
   
6-224   Littering
   
6-225   Prohibited fences
   
6-226   Appliances in yard
   
6-227   Obstructing water flow
   
6-228   Removing dirt
   
6-229   Failure to pay admission
   
6-230   Discharge of firearms
   
6-231   Abandoned automobiles
   
6-232   Privately owned, semi-public parking lots and malls; regulations
   
6-233   Failure to appear in court
§ 6-201 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a municipal or state police
officer to wear an official badge or uniform or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials.
(2005 Code, § 6-201)
§ 6-202 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful refuse to assist a municipal police officer when
lawfully requested to do so by him or her.
(2005 Code, § 6-202)
§ 6-203 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any municipal police officer
attempting to make an arrest when such officer is in the lawful performance of
his or her duties.
(2005 Code, § 6-203)
§ 6-204 ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after he or she has been arrested, to
abuse a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 6-204)
§ 6-205 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the municipality, or to break, cut or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same.
(2005 Code, § 6-205)
§ 6-206 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(2005 Code, § 6-206)
§ 6-207 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods or moveable property of any kind whatever. Any person who shall
steal property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than $500 shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-207)
§ 6-208 CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Any person who receives or conceals stolen property, goods or chattels of
any kind with the intent to defraud the owner, or whoever receives or conceals
any money or other accountable receipts and evidences of ownership shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-208)
§ 6-209 ARSON.
   Any person who willfully or maliciously sets on fire any property when the
injury or damage therefrom shall be of a less value than $100 shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-209)
§ 6-210 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and
without lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
governing body to do so, and the written permit of the governing body in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(2005 Code, § 6-210)
§ 6-211 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(2005 Code, § 6-211)
§ 6-212 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages or have
in his or her possession an open container of an alcoholic beverage in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways or upon any property owned by the
municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, in theaters, dance
halls or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the state;
provided also that, the City Council may allow drinking in certain public areas
by passing a resolution.
(2005 Code, § 6-212)
§ 6-213 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to represent that he or she is of the age
of 21 years for the purpose of asking for, purchasing or receiving any
alcoholic beverages.
(2005 Code, § 6-213)
§ 6-214 MINOR IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to transport,
knowingly possess or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle, beer
or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway or property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or any other place within the
municipal limits.
(2005 Code, § 6-214)
§ 6-215 TOBACCO SALE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or attempt to sell to any person
under the age of 18 any tobacco, cigarettes or cigars of any kind.
(2005 Code, § 6-215)
§ 6-216 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to carry about his, her
or their person any concealed pistol, revolver, knife, billy club, slingshot,
metal knuckles or other dangerous weapon of any kind unless otherwise allowed
under state or federal law, including the Concealed Handgun Permit Act, being
Nebraska RS 69-2427 to 69-2449.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to the municipal police.
(2005 Code, § 6-216)
§ 6-217 ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit the offense of assault. A person
commits the offense of assault if he or she intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly causes bodily injury to another person or threatens another in a
menacing manner.
(2005 Code, § 6-217)
§ 6-218 TERRORISTIC THREATS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit a terroristic threat. A person
commits a terroristic threat if he or she threatens to commit a crime likely to
result in death or serious physical injury to another person or likely to
result in substantial property damage to another person, or if he or she
intentionally makes false statements with the intent of causing the evacuation
of a building, place of assembly or facility of public transportation.
(2005 Code, § 6-218)
§ 6-219 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-219)
§ 6-220 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-220)
§ 6-221 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit criminal mischief.
   (B)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally or recklessly tampers with property of another so as
to endanger person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
(2005 Code, § 6-221)
§ 6-222 DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb, interrupt or
interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise,
by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior or indecent and shocking
behavior. Any person or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accord with state statute.
(2005 Code, § 6-222)
§ 6-223 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(2005 Code, § 6-223)
§ 6-224 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast, lay or drop on any
public way or property any paper, scrap material or other waste whatsoever.
(2005 Code, § 6-224)
§ 6-225 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(2005 Code, § 6-225)
§ 6-226 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(2005 Code, § 6-226)
§ 6-227 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
(2005 Code, § 6-227)
§ 6-228 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 6-228)
§ 6-229 FAILURE TO PAY ADMISSION.
   No person shall enter upon any public or private grounds or buildings within
the city for which there is a charge without paying the charge for admission or
without the consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
(2005 Code, § 6-229)
§ 6-230 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person, except an officer of the law in the discharge of his or her
duty, shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm within the city.
This section shall not apply to licensed shooting galleries, private gun club
ranges approved by resolution, the Mayor and City Council or to private
shooting ranges within buildings approved by the Mayor and City Council; when
necessary for the public or individual defense and safety; or when necessary
for the carrying on of any business or the presentation of any play, theatrical
or stage performance or public spectacle duly authorized or licensed.
   (B)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any air gun, bow
or any other arms, or any slingshot or similar device loaded with rock or
leaden or other dangerous missiles, at any time or under any circumstances.
   (C)   Private gun club ranges approved by resolution under this section may
receive approval for a period not to exceed five years from the date of the
resolution and the approval once granted may only be terminated by giving
written notice at least 18 months prior to the expiration of any approved
period. Additional periods of approval may be granted for additional five years
or lesser periods, all subject to the termination period noted above. Failure
to renew on approval shall be deemed a termination requiring 18 months’ notice.
(2005 Code, § 6-230)
§ 6-231 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the municipal
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property.
   (B)   An automobile shall be deemed to be abandoned if left unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking
is legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (C)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of such
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the municipality. In the event the
automobile is licensed for the current year or is a wholesale value of over
$100, the municipal police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner
of the said automobile by sending a notice to the registered owner, if known;
by sending an inquiry to the county it is registered in, if the owner is
unknown; or by contacting the Director of Motor Vehicles, if the car is without
license plates and the owner is unknown. If notified by the Director of Motor
Vehicles that a lien or mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be
sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be
required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle. If the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee, is known and does not claim the automobile within five
days after the date when the notice was mailed, or upon receiving word from the
Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is unknown, title will immediately
vest in the municipality and the automobile may be sold. Any proceeds from the
sale of the automobile less any expenses incurred by the municipality in such
removal, storage and sale shall be held without interest in a separate account
for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two years. If not
claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid into the
General Fund.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally-owned property; and private property shall mean any privately-owned
property which is not included within the definition of public property.
   (E)   Any person who abandons an automobile, as hereinbefore defined, shall
be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2005 Code, § 6-231)
§ 6-232 PRIVATELY OWNED, SEMI-PUBLIC PARKING LOTS AND MALLS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the written request of an owner or operator of a property,
parking lot, shopping center or similar semi-public, but privately-owned,
places within the city limits, the city may provide for regulation of traffic,
parking, public uses and conduct of invitees upon such specified area. All
written requests shall be directed to the City Administrator; shall contain a
legal description of the area to be regulated; and a copy of each such request
shall be kept on file in the office of the city’s Police Department.
   (B)   Upon receipt of each request as specified herein and upon each
specified area, the city may enforce the following traffic laws regulating the
flow of traffic, parking, speed limits, offenses against public morals,
unlawful assembly, trespass and similar offenses as more fully set forth in
this municipal code:
5-213 Right-of-way
5-210 Moving stopped vehicle
5-301 Littering
5-302 Glass; pointed objects
5-305 Speed limits
5-306 Reckless driving
5-306 Willful reckless driving
5-307 Careless driving
5-312 Negligent driving
5-309 Unnecessary stopping
5-311 Driving abreast
5-312 Following distance
5-315 Dragging; rope, chain
5-316 Riding; outside vehicle
5-317 Clinging to motor vehicles
5-318 Driving in sidewalk space
5-319 Vehicle; muffler
5-321 Police; refusal to obey
5-412 Parking; obstructing traffic
5-422 Go-karts and minibikes
5-602 Go-karts and minibikes; unlawful operation unlawful operation
 
(2005 Code, § 6-232)
§ 6-233 FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT.
   (A)   Whomever is charged with a violation of an ordinance of this city,
conviction of which would carry a jail sentence, or require payment of a fine,
or either, and who shall fail to appear in court when legally required, or to
surrender within three days thereafter, shall, upon conviction for willful
failure to so appear, be guilty of said offense.
   (B)   Any person convicted of the offense of failure to appear in court
shall be fined $250.
(Ord. 2453, passed 12-7-2021)
ARTICLE 3: LITTER
Section
   
6-301   Definitions
   
6-302   Weed and litter removal
   
6-303   Vehicles; trailers and camper trailers
   
6-304   Penalties
§ 6-301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any: trash, rubbish, garbage, debris; paper; rags; ashes; grain,
cobs; wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble; discarded
furniture; grass, leaves, twigs, trees, yard waste, worthless vegetation; dead
animals, offal and any vehicle or parts thereof which have lost their identity,
character, utility or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling
or the ravages of time; are inoperative or unable to perform their intended
functions; are cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or
junk. LITTER shall also mean any motor vehicle, trailer or camper trailer
without current license plates and registration for a period of time in excess
of 30 days, as well as any dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked, junked or
inoperable motor vehicle, trailer or camper trailer.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Leafy spurge, Canada thistle, Musk thistle and Plumeless
thistle. NOXIOUS WEEDS also shall mean and include any weed designated and
listed in regulations promulgated by the Director of Agriculture of the state.
(2005 Code, § 6-301) (Ord. 2322, passed 4-20-2010; Ord. 2382, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 6-302 WEED AND LITTER REMOVAL.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant or
person in possession, charge of or control of any lot or ground or any part of
any lot, to permit, allow or maintain any growth of noxious weeds, grass and
other rank growth of vegetation 12 inches or more in height, or to litter or to
cause or allow litter to be deposited thereon or to allow litter to remain on
such property, other than in proper receptacles provided therefor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot in
the city to cut such lot or ground, together with that area between the
property line and the curbed, paving or traveled roadway line, of all untended
woods, grass or other rank growth of vegetation which has reached a height of
12 inches or more above the ground.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person who owns or who is in control of any
property to fail or refuse to keep such property free of litter, to prevent
litter from being carried or deposited by the elements beyond such property or
to allow litter to remain on such property.
   (D)   The city shall, during the month of April of each year, publish or
cause to be published in one or more legal publications of general circulation
a general notice setting forth the requirements of this section.
   (E)   In the event of a violation of the rules set forth above the city
shall notify the owner, agent, occupant or the person in possession, charge or
control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot in the city to cut such
weeds or remove such litter. Such notice shall be by any form of written notice
personally delivered or mailed by priority or certified mail through the United
States Post Office, addressed to such person(s). Seven days after such notice,
the city may, at the discretion of the code enforcement official, either issue
a citation to such person or proceed to have such work done as provided
hereafter.
   (F)   In the event the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to comply with said notice
and clear or cut such lot, or ground, together with that area between the
property line, and the curb, paving or traveled roadway line, of all weeds,
grass and other rank growth of vegetation which has reached a height of 12
inches or more, and all litter, or both, as provided in this section:
      (1)   The city may cause such weeds, grass and other rank growth of
vegetation to be cut or such litter to be removed, or any combination thereof,
and assess the actual cost thereof as well as the direct costs associated with
the administration, mailing of notices and publication of said assessments in
amounts as determined by resolution of the City Council thereafter upon the
property in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed.
      (2)   The city shall maintain the right to continue the cutting of such
weeds and removal of litter or any combination thereof, at all times thereafter
until new growth of the following year.
   (G)   It is hereby further declared unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant
or person in possession, charge of or control of any lot or ground or any part
of any lot, to permit or allow any litter to be deposited on the area outside
of the property line on the curb, sidewalks, alley or street.
(2005 Code, § 6-302) (Ord. 779, passed 10-18-1977; Ord. 2322, passed 4-20-2010;
Ord. 2346, passed 4-3-2012; Ord. 2431, passed 10-15-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 6-303 VEHICLES; TRAILERS AND CAMPER TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or is in control of any
property to place, cause to be placed or allow to remain on his or her property
any vehicle or vehicles, trailers or camper trailers, or parts thereof or any
vehicular litter set forth in §
6-301 of this chapter; provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to
any vehicle, trailer or camper trailer which is kept in the operation of a
business pursuant to any municipal ordinance or is kept within a garage.
   (B)   Every such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
every day on which such violation shall continue.
(2005 Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 2382, passed 6-7-2016)
§ 6-304 PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to the payment of the actual costs as provided in §
6-302 of this article, any person, firm or corporation who fails to cut weeds,
grass and other rank growth of vegetation or remove litter, or both, as
required by this article shall pay the following penalties:
      (1)   For the first violation: a penalty in the sum of $100;
      (2)   For the second violation: a penalty in the sum of $200; and
      (3)   For the third violation and each subsequent violation thereafter: a
penalty in the sum of $300.
   (B)   In the event any person, firm or corporation fails to pay the penalty
herein provided the city may assess such penalty upon the property in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed, or the
city may sue any such person or persons in any court of competent jurisdiction
for the amount of the penalty due and payable under the terms and provisions of
this section, and may recover a judgment against such person or persons for the
amount so due, together with interest.
(2005 Code, § 6-304)
ARTICLE 4: MISCELLANEOUS INFRACTIONS
Section
   
6-401   Unlawful assembly
   
6-402   Disorderly house; maintaining; inmate
   
6-403   Failure to disperse
§ 6-401 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together within the
city upon any sidewalk or street thereof, in front of or adjacent to any store,
shop or other place of business so as to obstruct the public right-of-way along
the street or sidewalk, or entrance of the place of business, or so as to
obstruct or injure the carrying on of any lawful business in any of the places
aforesaid.
(2005 Code, § 6-401)
§ 6-402 DISORDERLY HOUSE; MAINTAINING; INMATE.
   (A)   The term DISORDERLY HOUSE, as used in this section, shall be deemed to
be any room, house, building, structure or premises where unlawful or illegal
acts are being committed. It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or
proprietor of any room, house, building structure or premises to knowingly
collect or permit to be collected therein persons who are engaging in any
unlawful act, or to knowingly make, cause, permit or suffer to be made therein
any loud or improper noise to the annoyance or disturbance of any person or
neighborhood.
(2005 Code, § 6-402)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an inmate of or visit or
frequent any disorderly house as declared in the above section with knowledge
of, and participating in, the illegal activities occurring therein.
(2005 Code, § 6-403)
§ 6-403 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a person
or persons are creating a disturbance of the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood, such police officer may order said person or persons not residing
on the premises to disperse for the purpose of abating said disturbance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to comply with a lawful
order to disperse given by a police officer in the performance of the officer’s
duties under this section.
(2005 Code, § 6-404)
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
6-501   Violation; penalty
§ 6-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violation, the penalty for each such violation shall be in
any amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 6-501)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   FIRES
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS
      
4.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: FIRES
Section
   
7-101   Preservation of property
   
7-102   Disorderly spectator
   
7-103   Equipment
   
7-104   Interference
   
7-105   Obstruction
   
7-106   Driving over hose
   
7-107   Traffic
   
7-108   False alarm
   
7-109   Pedestrians
§ 7-101 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same. The Chief shall have control of
the police and of all other persons present. He or she may appoint persons to
assist in the protection of property who shall, on his or her recommendation,
be compensated by the City Council for any services rendered.
(2005 Code, § 7-101)
§ 7-102 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, in any matter relating to said fire, or to act
in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(2005 Code, § 7-102)
§ 7-103 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, destroy, handle or in any
other way to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and
other apparatus belonging to the municipality; provided, however, this section
shall not apply to the Fire Chief and members of the Municipal Fire Department
when performing their prescribed duties.
(2005 Code, § 7-103)
§ 7-104 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of his, her or their duty.
(2005 Code, § 7-104)
§ 7-105 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of
the owner or claimant. It shall also be unlawful for any unauthorized person to
tamper with or turn on any fire hydrant within the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 7-105)
§ 7-106 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(2005 Code, § 7-106)
§ 7-107 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles. The Fire Department shall have the
right-of-way upon any street, alley or highway when going to or returning from
fires, held under the direction or by order of the Fire Chief. When fires
occur, the Chief of the Fire Department, Chief of Police or any officer
specially deputized shall have the power to close any street or highway or
public place adjacent to such fire.
(2005 Code, § 7-107)
§ 7-108 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(2005 Code, § 7-108)
§ 7-109 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(2005 Code, § 7-109)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention Code
   
7-202   Fire Code enforcement
   
7-203   Inspections
   
7-204   Fire limits; defined; materials
   
7-205   Permitted repairs
   
7-206   Ironclads prohibited
   
7-207   Fires prohibited
   
7-208   Fires regulated
   
7-209   Outdoor wood-burning fireplaces; enumerated
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are standards set forth by the
International Code Council known as the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition
(IFC 2018) and all subsequent amendments. This code shall have the same force
and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the 2018 International
Fire Code is on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time during normal business hours.
(2005 Code, § 7-201)
§ 7-202 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(2005 Code, § 7-202)
§ 7-203 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, when directed to
do so by the Mayor and City Council, as often as may be necessary, but not less
than twice a year, in outlying districts and four times a year in the closely
built portions of the city, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire
Department officers or members or some officer of the city chosen by the Mayor
and City Council, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire or any violations of the
provisions or intent of any regulations of the city affecting the fire hazard.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall report in detail to the State Fire
Marshal the owners or occupiers of buildings or premises who shall fail or
neglect to correct, within five days, any condition found by him or her upon
inspection, liable to cause fire.
(2005 Code, § 7-203)
§ 7-204 FIRE LIMITS; DEFINED; MATERIALS.
   (A)   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: all portions which shall comprise the area
designated as C-2 District in the zoning ordinance, the location and boundaries
of which shall be found on the map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of
Holdrege” on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 7-204)
   (B)   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built,
altered, moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or other
masonry material.
(2005 Code, § 7-205)
§ 7-205 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
said person shall first submit an application to the Building Inspector to make
such repairs, alterations or to add to any building and shall state on the
application that the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the
Building Inspector. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs
shall not require a permit. In the event that the repairs, alteration or
addition is to involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be
required to apply for a new building permit which shall state that the
building, when completed, shall be fire- proof and made of non-combustible
materials.
(2005 Code, § 7-206)
§ 7-206 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds and structures known as ironclads which are constructed
of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame shall be
considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any future
construction of an ironclad building within the fire limits of §
7-204(A) of this article shall hereafter be prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 7-207)
§ 7-207 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 7-208)
§ 7-208 FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   No person shall build, cause or allow any fire and no person, owner,
lessor or occupant shall authorize or permit any fire on private land within
the city limits, except:
      (1)   Within a fireplace, cooking or heating appliance, within an
enclosed building;
      (2)   The preparation of food;
      (3)   A fire-proof incinerator approved by the Building Inspector in
accordance with the Uniform Building, Uniform Mechanical and Uniform Fire
Codes; and
      (4)   At the city landfill by city officials.
   (B)   Open burning within the city other than the above may be permitted
only when written approval has been secured from the Fire Chief; provided, they
shall not be set out or located in such a manner as to endanger buildings or
property and such permit is issued in accordance with state statutes and
regulations of the Uniform Fire Code.
   (C)   The following shall not be burned under permit or otherwise:
      (1)   Garbage, defined as putrescible waste, except sewage and body
waste; all vegetable and animal offal; all waste resulting from preparation of
food or table refuse or waste; all accumulation of animal, vegetable or other
matter that attends the preparation, consumption, decay, dealing in or storage
of meats, fish, fowls, vegetables or other food materials;
      (2)   Plastic or foam or any material containing plastic or foam; and
      (3)   Petroleum oils or fuels, rubber or asphalt products.
   (D)   Within the city, it shall be prima facie evidence that the person who
owns, controls or occupies property on which burning occurs has caused or
permitted said burning.
(2005 Code, § 7-209)
§ 7-209 OUTDOOR WOOD-BURNING FIREPLACES; ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Fire prevention, outdoor fireplaces. The term “outdoor fireplaces”
shall include portable fire pits, chimineas, and fire rings. These outdoor
fireplaces use wood as fuel and are used to contain recreational fires for the
purpose of outdoor cooking and personal enjoyment. Outdoor fireplaces do not
include barbeque grills that use propane or charcoal as fuel and are used
primarily for outdoor cooking. Portable fire pits are defined as being
commercially designed and intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires.
Chimineas are defined as an outdoor patio fireplace, usually made from clay,
intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires. All outdoor fireplaces
shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Construction. The fire fuel area and openings shall be completely
enclosed by steel screening or an approved non-combustible screening material
with openings of an area not larger than one-half-inch square. Vent stacks and
chimneys shall have a steel screen cover made of heavy wire mesh or other non-
combustible material with openings of an area not larger than one-half-inch
square. Fire fuel areas shall be covered with a steel screen cover made of
heavy wire mesh or other non-combustible material with openings of an area not
larger than one-half-inch square. Not permitted are barrels, half-barrels,
drums or similarly constructed devices.
      (2)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than four
feet in diameter and a height of more than two feet.
      (3)   Location. All outdoor fireplaces will be placed on a firm, non-
combustible surface such as a concrete pad while in use and shall maintain a
safe and prudent distance from the nearest structure. Outdoor fireplaces shall
not be located on combustible balconies or decks or on any balcony above the
first floor. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be located under any combustible
balcony or any overhanging part of a structure.
   (B)   Fuel material. Outdoor fireplaces shall only burn commercial logs,
untreated wood and natural sawn dry wood. Petroleum products, rubbish, grass,
leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any material that may flow out of the
containment, cause excessive heat, smoke or an offensive smell shall not be
permitted.
   (C)   Amount of fuel material. The amount of material being burnt shall be
limited to ensure the flames are confined inside the fuel area of the outdoor
fireplace and the flames do not extend into the chimney or more than 18 inches
above the pit. The manufacturer's recommendation on the maximum amount of fuel
to be used at one time shall be followed.
   (D)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by
at least one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the
fire until the fire is completely extinguished, the embers are cool, and the
fire cannot rekindle.
   (E)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire- extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for
use.
   (F)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated
when winds gust over 15 mph or when the prevailing breeze might cause smoke,
embers, or other burning materials to be carried toward any building or other
combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when a local
Red Flag Warning is in effect.
   (G)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and
care is accomplished in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
Outdoor fireplaces shall be checked regularly for the appearance of cracks and
other physical deterioration such as loose or missing parts.
   (H)   Smoke nuisance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a
nuisance for neighboring property owners. Upon complaint of any neighboring
property owner, an offending outdoor fireplace will be immediately extinguished
if a responding police officer or fireman determines that its continued use
constitutes a hazardous or unpleasant condition to the buildings or occupants
of surrounding properties.
   (I)   Exemptions. Due to the clean-burning nature of their fuel,
commercially available natural gas and propane-powered fire pits are exempt
from the restrictions of this section. However, owners shall follow the
equipment's instructions as well as practicing common-sense fire safety
protocol.
(Ord. 2449, passed - -)
ARTICLE 3: EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS
Section
   
7-301   Permit required
   
7-302   Liquefied petroleum gases; definition
   
7-303   Regulation
   
7-304   Personal use
   
7-305   Fireworks
§ 7-301 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall erect or use any building or tank for storing of
quantities of dynamite, nitroglycerine, giant power or explosives in the city,
unless such person obtains a permit therefor from the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   No person shall erect or use any building or tank for storing
kerosene, gasoline or other petroleum products in quantities or in barrels for
the purpose of carrying on the oil business, within the city, unless such
person obtains a permit. Such permit shall specify the exact location where
such storage tanks may be placed or where and under what conditions such oil
and gasoline in barrels may be stored. The Mayor and City Council, at any time
the public good demands, may order the removal of such tanks and buildings.
(2005 Code, § 7-301)
§ 7-302 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES; DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES
shall mean and include any material which is composed predominantly of any of
the hydrocarbons of propane, butanes (normal butane or iso-butane) and
butylenes or mixtures of them.
   (B)   The construction, design, location and operation of liquefied
petroleum gas installations, installations utilizing containers of such
liquefied petroleum gases and the transportation of such liquefied petroleum
gases within the city shall be according to rules and regulations promulgated
by the State Fire Marshal for the storage and handling of liquefied petroleum
gases. A copy of such rules and regulations is on file in the office of the
City Clerk and such rules and regulations are hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this article by reference, the same as though set forth herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain within the city limits
storage or storage tanks of liquefied petroleum gas without the proper
installation of all equipment according to all laws and regulations of the
State Fire Marshal relating to storage of liquefied petroleum gas.
   (D)   Liquefied petroleum gas tanks shall be installed according to the
following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Tanks 100 gallons to 500 gallons shall be a minimum of ten feet
from any building structure, AC/heating unit or lot line.
      (2)   Tanks 501 gallons and up shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any
building structure, AC/heating unit or lot line.
      (3)   No tank will be located in the front yard or side yard if adjacent
to a street, as defined in the municipal code.
      (4)   Proper filing of a permit from the Municipal Services Director
shall be required. Paper work required is as follows: a completed application
form and site plan in detail showing location of tank and distances from
building structures and lot lines. The fee for permit is $15.
      (5)   Distributors shall not fill an LP-gas container for which a permit
is required unless a permit has been issued for that location by the Municipal
Services Director.
      (6)   Tanks up to 100 pounds, (example: if tank is for a grill or
camper), are exempt.
      (7)   All new installations shall be inspected by the city prior to
initial filling. All new tanks will be tagged after inspection.
      (8)   These regulations include temporary tanks.
(2005 Code, § 7-302) (Ord. 2331, passed 3-15-2011)
§ 7-303 REGULATION.
   No person shall install and operate any apparatus for dispensing gasoline,
oil, kerosene, distillate or any combustible material upon or from any curb or
curb space in the city or dispense by means of hose, pipe or otherwise any
gasoline, oil, kerosene, distillate or any combustible material under, over,
from or to any curb or curb space.
(2005 Code, § 7-303)
§ 7-304 PERSONAL USE.
   Any person may keep in buildings owned or controlled by him or her, for
family or personal use, in enclosed metallic cans painted red, and free from
leakage, gasoline in quantities not exceeding two gallons. All gasoline or
volatile oils in excess of the above amounts shall be kept under ground and
outside of any building and be handled only by some pumping system approved by
the National Board of Fire Underwriters. A copy of such general regulations of
such Board is on file in the office of the City Clerk and such regulations are
hereby incorporated in and made a part of this chapter, the same as though set
forth herein.
(2005 Code, § 7-304)
§ 7-305 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, sell or offer for sale, give away, keep,
store, use, start, discharge, set off, ignite or explode within the city any
fireworks, except permissible fireworks as defined by this section. PERMISSIBLE
FIREWORKS shall mean only sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charge for the purpose of making noise, lady fingers not to exceed
seven-eighths of one inch in length or one-eighth of one inch in diameter and
total pyrotechnic composition not to exceed one-half grain each in weight,
color wheels and any other fireworks determined by the state’s Fire Marshal to
be safe for general use.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the possession of pyrotechnics which
are in transportation to points outside of the city or to displays of a public
nature sponsored by or by virtue of a permit granted by the City Council.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the sale, storage or use of
railroad track torpedoes or other signaling devices used by railroads, nor to
the sale, storage or use of flashlight composition by photographers or dealers
in photographic supplies.
(2005 Code, § 7-305)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
7-401   Violation; penalty
§ 7-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 7-401)
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      
2.   SIDEWALKS
      
3.   STREETS
      
4.   CURB AND GUTTER
      
5.   BUILDING AND STREET NUMBERING
      
6.   TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS
      
7.   TREES
      
8.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Section
   
8-101   Municipal property, terraces, curb lines
   
8-102   Improvements; power of city
   
8-103   Obstructions; sales displays and the like
   
8-104   Permitted obstructions
   
8-105   Weeds
   
8-106   Signs, awnings and canopies
   
8-107   Vehicles not to be driven over curbs
   
8-108   Overhanging branches
§ 8-101 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY, TERRACES, CURB LINES.
   (A)   There shall be reserved on each side of every street in the city for
sidewalks and for the cultivation of trees and grass such space as the Mayor
and City Council, by resolution, shall fix, taking into consideration the
matter of uniformity with respect to sidewalks and curbs in adjacent blocks.
   (B)   No curb line shall be fixed, no park space shall be cultivated (except
as provided above) and no curbs shall be built by any property owner without
the written permission of the Mayor and City Council pursuant to written
application therefor.
   (C)   On streets in the business or residence portion of the city, the curb
line shall remain as it is now established.
(2005 Code, § 8-101)
§ 8-102 IMPROVEMENTS; POWER OF CITY.
   The Mayor and Council, by a three-fourths vote, shall have the power to
open, control, name, rename, extend, widen, narrow, vacate, grade, curb,
gutter, park and pave or otherwise to improve and control and keep in good
repair and condition, in any manner they may deem proper, any street, avenue or
alley, public parks or square, or part of either, within or without the limits
of the city; and it may grade partially or to the established grade or park or
otherwise improve any width or part of any street, avenue or alley.
(2005 Code, § 8-102)
§ 8-103 OBSTRUCTIONS; SALES DISPLAYS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public
ground and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements
shall be deemed an obstruction under this article. Said roots may be removed by
the municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the
tree is located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys or their rights-of-way. The public ways and property shall be
considered to be obstructed when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property
shall permit or suffer to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or
her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or similar growth in excess of three feet in
height, measured from the curb level or when such growth or tree obstructs the
vision of drivers of motor vehicles at street or alley intersections in the
city. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed
and pruned all such similar growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow
in excess of three feet contrary to the provisions of this article, or contrary
to the provisions of § 6-302 of this code of ordinances, the governing body may
pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove such obstructions
within three days after having been served with a copy of said resolution by
the municipality stating that the municipality will do so and will charge the
costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements
as herein provided, or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name
of the municipality against the said owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of
an owner or occupant engaged in construction of any building or improvement
upon or near the public ways and property to have all excavations or exposures
of any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and
by warning lights at night. In the event of failure, neglect or refusal to
comply with the provisions of this article, it shall be the duty of the
municipality to stop all work upon said buildings and improvements until
suitable guards are erected and kept in the manner aforesaid. Trees and shrubs
growing upon the lot line partially on public ground and partially upon the
abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property, but so close to the
lot line as to interfere with the making of any public improvement or so that
the roots thereof interfere with any utility wires, pipe or any public
improvement shall be deemed an obstruction and such trees, shrubs and roots may
be removed by the municipality pursuant to the procedure prescribed above. In
the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(2005 Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   No person shall erect, maintain or suffer to remain on any street,
public sidewalk, public right-of-way, or on any portion of the area between the
lot line and the curb line of any street; any stand, wagon, display of
merchandise or any other obstruction injurious to, inconvenient or inconsistent
with the public use of the same; provided that a reasonable time shall be
allowed to remove goods, wares and merchandise being received and shipped.
However, the City Council or city official duly authorized by Council
resolution may grant exceptions to this section.
(2005 Code, § 8-104)
(Ord. 2468, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 8-104 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Building Inspector; provided, no permit
for the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the public space
adjacent to the real estate on which said building is to be constructed,
erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted; and, provided
further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the
public space included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the
manner required by the official issuing the permit.
(2005 Code, § 8-105)
§ 8-105 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Municipal Services Director or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season and, if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds and grasses cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds and grasses; provided, any weeds, grasses or other
rank growth of vegetation growing in excess of 12 inches on any terrace shall
be considered a violation of this section. In the event that the owner of the
lot or parcel of land abutting said terrace within the municipality is a non-
resident of the municipality or cannot be found therein, the notice may be
given to any person having the care, custody or control of such lot or parcel
of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the municipality to
whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Services
Director or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises and
then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report
the cost thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost shall then be
audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall be assessed
against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall be
collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of land. In
the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(2005 Code, § 8-106)
§ 8-106 SIGNS, AWNINGS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, awning or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or
on other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor.
Permits for signs, canopies, awnings, posters and signboards shall be issued by
the Building Inspector, upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the
governing body. All signs, awnings and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the same being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes. No sign, awning or canopy shall be
erected or maintained which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place in such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic
light, sign or signal. Upon the written order of the governing body, any person
owning or occupying the premises where such a sign, awning, canopy, poster or
signboard extends over public property, shall cause the same to be removed
within the time limit specified on such notice.
(2005 Code, § 8-107)
   (B)   (1)   All awnings erected or allowed to remain over the sidewalk space
shall be of approved material. All awnings, signs and canopies shall be
elevated at least eight feet at their lowest part from the top of the public
sidewalk and shall not project over the sidewalk to exceed three-fourths of the
width thereof, nor any closer than three feet to the curb line of any street or
alley.
      (2)   They shall be supported, without posts, by iron brackets or by an
iron framework attached firmly to the building or other support, so as to leave
the public property wholly unobstructed thereby.
(2005 Code, § 8-108)
§ 8-107 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN OVER CURBS.
   No person shall drive, propel or haul any truck, tractor, motor vehicle,
wagon or other vehicle over any curb in any street or alley within the city.
(2005 Code, § 8-109)
§ 8-108 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street, alley, sidewalk or public property over which there
extends the branches of trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs
thereof trimmed to the height of at least eight feet above the surface of said
walk and to a height of at least 12 feet above the surface of said streets and
alleys.
   (B)   Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein or so as to interfere
with the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of
the public using said street or sidewalk, the city shall give notice to the
owner or occupant by publication, or personal service ordering the owner or
occupant to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after having
received a copy thereof, stating that the municipality will remove said
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said notice is not complied
with.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(2005 Code, § 8-110)
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
8-201   Kept clean
   
8-202   Snow removal; violations and penalties
   
8-203   Beneath
   
8-204   Maintenance
   
8-205   Repair
   
8-206   Construction by owner
   
8-207   Municipal construction
   
8-208   Certification of cost of work performed by city
   
8-209   Construction bids
   
8-210   Non-complying construction
§ 8-201 KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the
owner of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow,
sleet, mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit
any snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk.
      (2)   All sidewalks shall be cleaned within 36 hours after the cessation
of a storm.
      (3)   The snow placed on sidewalks by city snowplows is a natural result
of clearing the streets and is the responsibility of the property owner or
occupant to remove.
   (B)   Snow from sidewalks and driveways may not be placed on city streets
with the following exceptions:
      (1)   By city employees in the performance of work related duties; or
      (2)   By downtown businesses located in an area from Railroad Street to
6th Avenue and from Grant Street to Garfield Street (commonly known as
“downtown”) in an effort to establish a clearance for the conducting of
business. Only snow from downtown sidewalks may be placed in city streets
within 36 hours of the cessation of snowfall.
   (C)   Notice to remove such substances shall be made upon the owner or
occupant of the premises, or his or her agent, and such notice shall demand the
removal of such substances forthwith. If the person owning or occupying such
premises is unknown or cannot be found, or if any reasonable service cannot be
had upon any such owner, agent or occupant within the city, then such service
shall be made by posting a typewritten copy of such notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises. In case the owner, agent or occupant shall fail to
remove the ice, snow, mud or other substances, then it shall be the duty of the
Municipal Services Director to remove such substance, and the expense thereof
shall be charged against the property and the owner thereof, and may be
recovered by proper action in the name of the city or may be charged against
the property as a special assessment for improvements.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-202 SNOW REMOVAL; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Each 24-hour period commencing with the declaration of a snow
emergency shall be deemed to be a separate day. Every day or part thereof that
any violation of any provision of this article shall continue beyond the first
day shall constitute a separate offense and may be charged as a second or
subsequent offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of at least $15 and not exceeding $100
if such violation be a first offense; or at least $25 and not exceeding $200 if
such violation be a second offense and charged as such; or at least $35 and not
exceeding $300 if such violation is a third or subsequent offense and charged
as such; and, in addition thereto, shall pay the costs of prosecution.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall also,
if his or her motor vehicle was removed by or at the request of the city, pay
such charges for removal and storage as are from time to time set by resolution
of the Mayor and Council of the city.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-203 BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless said person shall maintain
and keep in repair a sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used
and pay all damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use
or by reason of said sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition.
   (B)   As a condition precedent to the continuance of any use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks, the governing body may require applicant to
furnish a bond to the municipality as obligee for the benefit of any person or
persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason of such use.
   (C)   The bond shall be in such sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-204 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain, for its entire width, the sidewalk along
and contiguous to said lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good
and proper repair, in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon, and in compliance with the standards set by the city. In the event
that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any street,
avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk in front
of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the manner as
directed and required herein after having received due notice to do so, he, she
or they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the governing body shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-205 REPAIR.
   The Municipal Services Director or City Council may require sidewalks of the
municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property along and
contiguous to any sidewalks in disrepair shall require said owners to make
arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs shall be completed
within 45 days after issuance of said notice. No special assessment shall be
levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect or refuse to repair
within the time prescribed and in the event that such owner fails to repair,
the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the property
owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-206 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, reconstruct, repair or replace any sidewalk without first
having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Building Inspector. The permit shall give
a description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Building Inspector shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if it is desired
to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed width,
location, grade, materials or elevation, as set by the City Engineer, the
Building Inspector shall submit the application to the governing body who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any
other width, location, grade, material or elevation than so designated by the
municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed according to the
time requirements, grade and construction standards set by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-207 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution of three-fourths of its members,
order the construction or widening of a sidewalk along and contiguous to any
lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the governing body’s
intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the Municipal Clerk by
publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality. A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the
occupant in possession of such property, or, when personal service is not
possible, said notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   (B)   (1)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the
passage of the resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed
a sidewalk within 45 days after the date of publication; and, further that, if
he or she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within
the time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed
and the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises.
      (2)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-208 CERTIFICATION OF COST OF WORK PERFORMED BY CITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall certify to the City Council a detailed
schedule of all sidewalks laid, widened or rebuilt, the cost of the same
against each abutting premises and such other facts as may be necessary to
enable it to make the proper levy; and, shall also certify to the City Council
the acceptance of any sidewalk so improved, or any other action he or she has
taken with reference thereto.
   (B)   The city, with the aid of the City Clerk and the Municipal Services
Director, shall allocate the cost of sidewalk improvement to the adjoining lots
or parcels of land and prepare all necessary data for assessment sheets.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-209 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting in each municipal year, or at any regular
or special meeting of the Mayor and City Council, the City Clerk shall be
instructed to advertise for bids to perform all work and furnish material
necessary for laying sidewalks within the city as the Mayor and City Council
may order laid during the municipal year. Such work shall be performed and
material furnished strictly in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
article.
   (B)   The contractor shall receive his or her compensation for such work and
material from the assessments against the real estate abutting which the work
is done, and shall accept, in full payment therefor, city warrants issued
against such assessments.
   (C)   The contract for laying sidewalks ordered by the Mayor and City
Council during the municipal year shall be let by the City Council to the
lowest bidder, after advertising for such bids for ten days in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. The City Council shall, before
letting such contract, have the Building Inspector make an estimate of the cost
of such work. Such notice shall require bids per square foot for sidewalks
constructed of concrete, including the performance of work and the furnishing
of materials; provided that, where the work of sidewalk improvement does not
exceed $20,000, advertisement for bids may be dispensed with and the Mayor and
City Council may let sidewalk contracts to any person bidding within the amount
of the estimate of the City Engineer or Municipal Services Director, who shall
act as City Engineer for such purpose.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
§ 8-210 NON-COMPLYING CONSTRUCTION.
   In case any property owner, under notice given or otherwise, shall construct
a sidewalk in violation of this article, the Municipal Services Director or
City Engineer may stop the work of such construction and order the same to be
constructed in accordance with this article, and order the work already done to
be changed. On the failure of such owner to change any such work, the Municipal
Services Director shall change such work, and the expense of the same shall be
assessed and taxed to the abutting property and collected as taxed, as provided
by law.
(Ord. 2329, passed 2-15-2011)
ARTICLE 3: STREETS
Section
   
8-301   Improvement districts; objections
   
8-302   Petition for improvement district
   
8-303   Widening or opening
   
8-304   Excavations
   
8-305   Construction, barricades and lights
   
8-306   Driving stakes
   
8-307   Mixing concrete
   
8-308   Harmful liquids
   
8-309   Interference with new paving and barricades
   
8-310   Heavy equipment
   
8-311   Load limits
   
8-312   Pipe lines and wires
   
8-313   Assessments; authorized
   
8-314   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
§ 8-301 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and Council shall have power to make improvements of
any street, streets, alley, alleys or any part of any street, streets, alley or
alleys, in said city, a street which divides the city corporate area and the
area adjoining the city, or within a county industrial area, as defined in Neb.
RS 19-2501, contiguous to such city, and for that purpose to create suitable
improvement districts, which shall be consecutively numbered; and such work
shall be done under contract.
      (2)   Such districts may include properties within the corporate limits,
adjoining the corporate limits and within county industrial areas, as defined
in Neb. RS 19-2501, contiguous to such cities.
   (B)   Any paving district or other improvement district shall include only
portions of different streets, or portions of town alleys, or portions of each,
which abut or adjoin so that such district, when created, makes up one
continuous or extended street or more; except that, the district may include a
cul-de-sac, any street, alley or portion thereof which is closed at one end or
which connects with only one other existing street, alley or portion thereof.
Any paving or other improvement district may include portions of each;
provided, they abut or connect with each other, or provided the several
portions abut on pavement or gravel already laid, or any other of aforesaid
improvements already laid.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor and Council shall first, by ordinance, create a
paving, graveling or other improvement district or districts.
      (2)   The Mayor and Clerk shall, after the passage, approval and
publication of such ordinance, publish notice of the creation of any such
district or districts one time each week for not less than 20 days in a daily
or weekly newspaper of general circulation published in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property abutting or adjoining any continuous or
extended thoroughfare or more street, cul-de-sac or alley of the district, or
portion thereof which is closed at one end, and who were such owners at the
time the ordinance creating the district was published, shall file with the
City Clerk, within 20 days from the first publication of said notice, written
objections to the improvement of a district, said work shall not be done in
said district under said ordinance, but said ordinance shall be repealed.
      (2)   If objections are not filed against any district in the time and
manner aforesaid, the Mayor and Council shall forthwith proceed to construct
such improvement.
(2005 Code, § 8-301)
§ 8-302 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   Whenever the owner of lots or lands abutting upon any street, avenue or
alley within the city, representing three-fourths of the front footage thereon,
so that such district when created will make up one continuous or extended
thoroughfare or more, shall petition the Mayor and Council to make improvement
of such street, avenue or alley, including intersections of streets or avenues
and spaces opposite alleys, against the private property within such
improvement district or districts, it shall be the duty of the Mayor and
Council to create the proper improvement district or districts, which shall be
consecutively numbered, and to improve the same and to proceed in the same
manner and form as herein before provided for in other paving and improvement
districts; provided, the Mayor and Council shall have power to levy the entire
cost of such improvements of any such street, avenue or alley, including
intersections of streets or avenues and spaces opposite alleys, against the
private property within such district, and to issue street improvement bonds of
said District to pay for such improvements in the same manner and form as
provided by statute.
(2005 Code, § 8-302)
§ 8-303 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley
or lane within the limits of the municipality; to create, open and improve any
new street, alley or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be ascertained
in such manner as shall be provided by statute.
(2005 Code, § 8-303)
§ 8-304 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall be allowed to make any excavation in any paved street or
alley, or remove any paving or other material forming any street or alley
improvement, without a permit from the Municipal Services Director, to be
issued only upon the written application of the party desiring such permit.
Such person shall maintain good and sufficient barricades, guards, lights and
signals to protect the public from injury or loss. When required such applicant
shall deposit with the City Clerk a sum sufficient to cover the cost of
replacing any improvement so removed, and the Municipal Services Director and
City Engineer shall cause such pavement to be replaced. After paying the
expense thereof out of such deposit, the balance of the deposit remaining in
the hands of the City Clerk, if any, shall be refunded to the applicant. When a
deposit is not required the City Clerk shall cause to be collected the cost of
said replacement from the applicant. All such cuts or excavations shall be made
under the supervision of the City Engineer or the Municipal Services Director.
(2005 Code, § 8-304)
§ 8-305 CONSTRUCTION, BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, lessee or contractor during
the construction of any building or improvement upon or near the line of any
public street, highway, alley or sidewalk to have all excavations or exposures
of any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day, and
by warning lights at night.
   (B)   In case of the failure, neglect or refusal of such person to erect
such guards and keep the street, highway or sidewalk well and securely guarded,
the Municipal Services Director of the city may immediately stop all work upon
such building or improvement until the guards are erected and kept in the
manner required by this section.
(2005 Code, § 8-305)
§ 8-306 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Municipal Services Director or City Engineer.
(2005 Code, § 8-306)
§ 8-307 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(2005 Code, § 8-307)
§ 8-308 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(2005 Code, § 8-308)
§ 8-309 INTERFERENCE WITH NEW PAVING AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   No person shall remove, destroy or tear down any barricade, fence,
railing or other device erected or constructed for the purpose of protecting
paving or any other work while in the course of construction or after it has
been constructed on any of the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city.
   (B)   No person shall drive over or upon or go upon any paving or other
public works in any of the streets, alleys or public grounds of the city while
the same is protected by any barrier, fence or railing or until such barrier,
fence or railing has been removed by the contractor in charge of such work or
by the duly authorized officials of the city.
(2005 Code, § 8-309)
§ 8-310 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Municipal Police and Municipal
Services Director are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over
which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and
allowed. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1
and April 15; provided that, school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets. It shall be permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load
when such vehicle is transported on a state highway or on any road within the
corporate limits be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the municipality, and such vehicle’s gross
weight does not exceed the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-6,294; and it shall be
permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a
vehicle to slide or skid.
(2005 Code, § 8-310)
§ 8-311 LOAD LIMITS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, prohibit the operation of vehicles
upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles, for a
total period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year, when operated upon
any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the maintenance of which the city
is responsible whenever any said highway by reason of deterioration, rain, snow
or other climatic condition will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the
use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the permissible weight thereof
reduced. The governing body shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
signs designating the provisions of the resolution at each end of that portion
of any highway affected thereby, and the resolution shall not be effective
until such signs are erected and maintained. The governing body may also, by
resolution, prohibit the operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles, or
impose limitations as to the weight thereof on designated highways, which
prohibitions and limitations shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on
such highways.
(2005 Code, § 8-311)
§ 8-312 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the Municipal Services Director in writing. Approval by
the Municipal Services Director shall be issued in writing. Any public service
company granted a right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and wires shall at all times erect and locate
their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances at such
places and in such manner as shall be designated by the Municipal Services
Director. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their own expense when
requested to do so by the Municipal Services Director. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by the Municipal Services Director and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The Municipal Services
Director shall designate another location as closely as possible where said
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, may be reset or
placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall be
reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the
water system; sewerage system; poles, wires and mains of any public utility;
adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances shall
be confined to the alleys and easements of the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 8-312)
§ 8-313 ASSESSMENTS; AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of improvements, the Mayor
and Council shall have power and authority to levy and collect special taxes
and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to or abutting upon
the street, avenue, alley or sidewalk, thus in whole or in part improved or
repaired or which may be specially benefitted by such improvements; provided,
the above provisions shall not apply to ordinary repairs of streets or alleys,
and the cost of such repair shall be paid out of the Street Fund; and the Mayor
and Council are authorized to draw warrants against such Fund not to exceed 85%
of the amount levied as soon as levy shall be made by the County Board.
(2005 Code, § 8-313)
   (B)   The cost of making such improvements of the streets and alleys within
any street improvement district shall be assessed upon the lots and lands in
such districts specially benefitted thereby in proportion to such benefits. The
amounts thereof shall be determined by the Mayor and Council under the
provisions of §
8-303 of this article. The assessment of the special tax for the cost of such
improvements, except as provided in this section, shall be levied at one time
and shall become delinquent in equal annual installments over such period of
years, not to exceed 20, as the Mayor and City Council may determine at the
time of making the levy, the first such installment to become delinquent in 50
days after the date of such levy. Each of said installments, including those
for graveling and the construction and replacement of pedestrian walks, plazas,
malls, landscaping, lighting systems and permanent facilities used in
connection therewith as hereinafter provided, except the first, shall draw
interest at a rate established by the Mayor and Council not exceeding the legal
maximum rate from the time of the levy until the same shall become delinquent.
After the same shall become delinquent, interest at a rate not exceeding the
legal maximum shall be paid thereon. Should there be three or more of said
installments delinquent and unpaid on the same property the Mayor and City
Council may by resolution declare all future installments on such delinquent
property to be due on a future fixed date. The resolution shall set forth the
description of the property and the names of its record title owners and shall
provide that all future installments shall become delinquent upon the date
fixed. A copy of such resolution shall be published one time each week for not
less than 20 days in a legal newspaper of general circulation published in the
city and after the fixed date such future installments shall be deemed to be
delinquent and the city may proceed to enforce and collect the total amount due
and all future installments. As to assessments for graveling alone and without
guttering or curbing, one-third of the total amount assessed against each lot
or parcel of land shall become delinquent in 50 days after the date of the levy
of the same, one-third in one year and one-third in two years.
(2005 Code, § 8-314)
§ 8-314 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or
part thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area adjoining
the municipality.
   (B)   When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to the
municipality the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special
benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially
benefitted thereby.
(2005 Code, § 8-315)
ARTICLE 4: CURB AND GUTTER
Section
   
8-401   Sidewalk construction required at installation
   
8-402   Cutting curb
§ 8-401 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED AT INSTALLATION.
   The provisions of §
11-1217(C) of this municipal code notwithstanding, any person constructing
curbs and combination curbs and gutters and all paving, whether of concrete or
other material, shall also provide for the construction of a sidewalk at the
same time paralleling such curb, combination curb and gutter or paving and on
the same side of the street as such curb or curb and gutter and on each side of
such paving except that the Mayor and Council may waive this requirement when
the abutting property is unplatted, undeveloped, agricultural and no public
need is found to exist. This section shall not apply in cases where there is an
existing sidewalk in place paralleling such curb, combination curb and gutter
or paving and on the same side of the street as such curb or curb and gutter
and on each side of such paving.
(2005 Code, § 8-401)
§ 8-402 CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any driveway or to cut into
any paving, curb or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any
other purpose whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from
the Building Inspector therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or
she shall inform the Municipal Services Director of the place where such
cutting or construction is to be done, and it shall be his or her duty to
inspect the place of entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb, before the same
is cut. When cutting into any paving or constructing any driveway, it shall be
the duty of the party cutting the paving or constructing any driveway to do so
in compliance with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
Municipal Services Director or the Municipal Engineer. When the applicant is
ready to close the opening made, he or she shall inform the chief street
official, who shall supervise, inspect and approve the materials used and the
work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with the governing
body to order the Municipal Services Director under the supervision of the
committee of the governing body on the streets and alleys, to do the work of
cutting and/or closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained such permit. The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and
closing the paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any
permit is issued by the Building Inspector, the applicant for such permit shall
when required deposit with the Municipal Clerk a sum set by resolution of the
governing body for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be
set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be
retained by the municipality for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or
sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the municipality. In the event the
municipality elects to require the applicant to replace the paving, curb or
sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the municipality until the work is
completed to the satisfaction of the Municipal Services Director or of the
committee of the governing body on streets and alleys.
(2005 Code, § 8-402)
ARTICLE 5: BUILDING AND STREET NUMBERING
Section
   
8-501   Numbering required
   
8-502   Numbering system
   
8-503   Type of numbers required
   
8-504   Plat filed with Municipal Services Director
   
8-505   Failure of property owner to maintain numbers
   
8-506   Vacation of street or alley; abutting property; how treated
§ 8-501 NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   The owner of every building located on any street or avenue of the city
shall number and cause to have placed in public view on each such building
owned by him or her or under his or her control numbers in accordance with the
plan of numbering provided for in this article.
(2005 Code, § 8-501)
§ 8-502 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   For the purpose of numbering buildings in the city, it shall be
divided into three sections as follows:
      (1)   All of that portion of the city lying north of the Burlington
Northern R.R. track and east of Burlington Street shall be known as “Holdrege”;
      (2)   All of that portion of the city lying west of Burlington Street and
north of the Burlington Northern R.R. shall be known as “West Holdrege”; and
      (3)   All of that portion of the city lying south of Burlington Northern
R.R. shall be known as “South Holdrege”.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of numbering buildings on streets and avenues in
South Holdrege, there shall be prefixed to the name of all streets or avenues
running north and south, the word “South”. For the purpose of numbering houses
on all streets in West Holdrege, the word “West” shall be prefixed to all
streets running west from Burlington Street.
      (2)   All streets north of the Burlington Northern R.R. and running east
and west shall be known by numbers and the name avenue shall be affixed thereto
so that they will be known as First (1st) Avenue, Second (2nd) Avenue, Third
(3rd) Avenue and the like. To distinguish the streets running east and west in
South Holdrege from those lying north of the Burlington Northern R.R., those
streets running east and west in South Holdrege shall be known as First (1st)
Street, Second (2nd) Street, Third (3rd) Street and the like.
   (C)   For the purpose of numbering buildings facing on streets running north
and south, such numbers shall begin at 100 on the north side of First (1st)
Street, 200 on the north side of Second (2nd) Street, 300 on the north side of
Third (3rd) Street and so on throughout the entire portion lying between First
(1st) Street and the Burlington Northern R.R.
   (D)   For the purpose of numbering buildings facing on streets running east
and west, such numbers shall begin with 100 at Burlington Street, 200 at the
first street east of Burlington Street and so on until the eastern limit of the
city is reached, and for the purpose of numbering houses in West Holdrege,
facing on streets running east and west, the numbers shall begin with 100 on
the west side of Burlington Street, 200 on the west side of the next street
west of Burlington Street and so on.
   (E)   (1)   Each block or fractional block fronting upon a street or avenue
shall have 50 numbers, commencing with the number 100 in the first block, 200
in the second block and so continuing with consecutive one-hundreds. The even
numbers shall be placed on the right-hand side and the odd numbers on the left-
hand side, with reference to the point of the commencing number.
      (2)   When opposite blocks are of different lengths, the numbers on the
short block shall run in conformity to the numbers on the longer blocks
opposite, and when blocks or fractional blocks or lots face upon or against the
rear of any street the numbers of such lots or blocks shall continue to the
further line of the street against which they face, and from that point the
numbering shall be in conformity with the block opposite.
   (F)   Every street frontage of 25 feet shall constitute a lot for the
purpose of numbering the buildings in the city. Each building having more that
25 feet frontage shall be numbered with the number to which the lot is entitled
and in case a frontage of 25 feet shall have more than one building, one
building shall be numbered with the number specified for that lot and the
additional building shall be given the same number, adding one-half thereto.
(2005 Code, § 8-502)
§ 8-503 TYPE OF NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   The figures used for the numbering of buildings shall not be less than two
inches in height by one inch in width, shall be legible and shall be made of
metal or some other durable material.
(2005 Code, § 8-503)
§ 8-504 PLAT FILED WITH MUNICIPAL SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to file in the office of the
Municipal Services Director (MSD) a plat showing the streets and the numbers
required under this article and whenever a plat is filed as an addition to the
city, the City Clerk shall file a copy of such plat with the MSD showing the
numbers as required under this article.
(2005 Code, § 8-504)
§ 8-505 FAILURE OF PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN NUMBERS.
   If the owner or person having control of any building required to be
numbered shall fail or neglect to have the same numbered in accordance with the
provisions of this article within 30 days after the City Clerk shall designate
the number each lot is entitled to, or shall fail or neglect to maintain such
number, for the space of ten days, then the same shall be numbered by the city
and the expense taxed against the property as a special assessment.
(2005 Code, § 8-505)
§ 8-506 VACATION OF STREET OR ALLEY; ABUTTING PROPERTY; HOW TREATED.
   (A)   Upon the vacation of any street or alley by the city, the title to
such property shall vest in the owners of the abutting property and become a
part of such property, one-half on each side thereof, unless the city reserves
title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by
the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such
terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   When a portion of a street or alley is vacated only on one side of the
center thereof, the title to such property shall vest in the owner of the
abutting property and become part of such property unless the city reserves
title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or alley. If title is
retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased
upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
city.
   (C)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street or alley, the
city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the vacation, file a
certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the
county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed against all
affected lots.
   (D)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
      (2)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities and any cable
television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(2005 Code, § 8-506)
ARTICLE 6: TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS
Section
   
8-601   Purpose
   
8-602   Definitions
   
8-603   Permit required
   
8-604   Notice
   
8-605   Issuance of permit
   
8-606   Permitted routes
   
8-607   Violation; penalty
§ 8-601 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards and regulations
ensuring the safe shipment and transportation of radioactive materials through
the city.
(2005 Code, § 8-601)
§ 8-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in present tense include the future,
words used in the plural number include the singular. The word “shall” is
always mandatory.
   CURIE. An expression of the quantity of radiation in terms of the number of
atoms which disintegrate per second; a CURIE is that quantity of radioactive
materials which decays such that 37,000,000,000 atoms disintegrate per second.
   LARGE QUANTITY RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS. A quantity the aggregate radioactivity
of which exceeds that specified in 10 C.F.R. part 71, entitled “Packaging of
Radioactive Material for Transport”, § 71.4(f).
   MILLICURIE. One-thousandth of a curie.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle defined as such in §
5-101 of this municipal code.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership or corporation engaged in the
transportation of passengers or property, as common, contract or private
carrier, or freight forwarder, as those terms are used in the Interstate
Commerce Act, amended.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL. Any material, or combination of materials, which
spontaneously emits ionizing radiation. Materials in which the estimated
specific activity is not greater than 0.002 microcuries per gram of material,
and in which the radioactivity is essentially uniformly distributed, are not
considered to be RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS.
(2005 Code, § 8-602)
§ 8-603 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit issued by the Director of Municipal Services or his or her
designated representative shall be required for the shipping or transportation
of the following radioactive materials by motor vehicle into, around the
perimeter of, within, through or out of the city:
      (1)   Plutonium isotopes in any quantity and form exceeding two grams or
20 curies, whichever is less;
      (2)   Uranium-enriched in the isotope U-235 exceeding two grams or 20
curies, whichever is less;
      (3)   Uranium-enriched in the isotope U-235 exceeding 25 atomic percent
of the total uranium content in quantities where the U-235 content exceeds one
kilogram;
      (4)   Any elements where atomic number 89 or greater, the activity of
which exceeds 20 curies;
      (5)   Spent reactor fuel elements or mixed fission products associated
with such fuel elements, the activity of which exceeds 20 curies;
      (6)   Large quantity radioactive materials;
      (7)   Any quantity, arrangement and packaging combination of fissile
material specified by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
      (8)   Commission as a Fissile Class III shipment in 10 C.F.R. part 71,
entitled “Packaging of Radioactive Materials for Transport”, § 71.4(d) (3); and
      (9)   Any shipment or transportation of radioactive material that is
required by the appropriate regulating agency to be accompanied by an escort
for safety reasons.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to radioactive materials shipped or
transported by or for the United States Government for military or security
purposes or which are related to national defense.
(2005 Code, § 8-603)
§ 8-604 NOTICE.
   When those radioactive materials requiring a permit as specified in this
article are to be shipped or transported into, within, through or out of the
city, the shipper or carrier, or other person otherwise responsible, shall
first notify the Director of Municipal Services or his or her designated
representative, in a form provided two weeks prior to the date of shipment. The
form shall include the date of shipment, type and quantity of radioactive
materials involved, method of transportation, route, starting point,
destination and such other information as the Director of Municipal Services or
his or her designated representative may reasonably require. Any information
which cannot be supplied two weeks prior to shipment or transportation shall be
supplied promptly by the person responsible for such shipment or transportation
when such information becomes available to him or her. Nothing herein shall be
construed as requiring the disclosure of any defense information or restricted
data as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization
Act of 1974, as amended.
(2005 Code, § 8-604)
§ 8-605 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Director of Municipal Services, or his or her designated representative,
shall not issue a permit to any person for this shipment or transportation of
those radioactive materials specified in this article, unless:
   (A)   There is a showing that the radioactive material has been or will be
containerized and packaged, and all warning labels affixed to the outer
container holding the radioactive material and the motor vehicle transporting
such material, in conformity with the regulations of the United States Nuclear
Regulatory Commission or other related federal or state agencies regardless of
whether the shipment is being made intracity, intrastate or interstate; and
   (B)   There is a showing that the shipment or transportation of radioactive
materials is necessitated by urgent public policy or national security
interests transcending public safety and health concerns of the city. For the
purposes of this section:
      (1)   An “urgent public policy” shall include medical and educational
interests; and
      (2)   An “urgent public policy” shall not include interests other than
medical and educational interests, unless expressly authorized in writing by
the United States Department of Transportation, or by any other appropriate
federal or state agency which may be required by the Director of Municipal
Services or his or her designated representative. Such authorization shall
state that the particular interest involved is, in the opinion of the agency,
permitted by federal or state regulations pertaining to the shipment or
transportation of radioactive materials, and that the interest involved
justifies the apparent risks resulting from such shipment or transportation.
(2005 Code, § 8-605)
§ 8-606 PERMITTED ROUTES.
   Radioactive materials which are permitted to be shipped or transferred
through the city pursuant to this article shall be shipped or transported over
such route or routes, or at such time or times of the day, consistent with the
public health, safety and welfare and the convenience of the shipper or
carrier, as the Director of Municipal Services or his or her designated
representative may direct.
(2005 Code, § 8-606)
§ 8-607 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such violation
shall be any amount not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of
time not to exceed three months, in the discretion of the Court.
(2005 Code, § 8-607)
ARTICLE 7: TREES
Section
   
8-701   Definitions
   
8-702   Tree Board; creation and establishment; term of office; compensation;
duties and responsibilities; operation
   
8-703   Street trees to be planted
   
8-704   Spacing
   
8-705   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
8-706   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
8-707   Utilities
   
8-708   Public tree care
   
8-709   Topping
   
8-710   Pruning, corner clearance
   
8-711   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
8-712   Removal of stumps
   
8-713   Interference with City Tree Board
   
8-714   License and bond
   
8-715   Permit required to plant trees in public right-of-way
   
8-716   Review by City Council
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Property, see
Ch. 11, Art. 1
   Sidewalks, see
Ch. 11, Art. 2
   Street, see
Ch. 11, Art. 3
§ 8-701 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(2005 Code, § 8-701)
§ 8-702 TREE BOARD; CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT; TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION;
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES; OPERATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the
city, which shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the city,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
(2005 Code, § 8-702)
   (B)   The term of the six persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
three years; except that, the term of two of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Board
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
(2005 Code, § 8-703)
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(2005 Code, § 8-704)
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and, upon its
acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree
plan for the city. The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall
consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special
matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
      (2)   The Municipal Services Director is the official representative of
the Tree Board and as such is responsible for administration of the Community
Forestry Program.
(2005 Code, § 8-705)
   (E)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(2005 Code, § 8-706)
§ 8-703 STREET TREES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The Holdrege Tree Board will create and maintain the Official Street
Tree Species List for the City of Holdrege, Phelps County, Nebraska. The
official list will be subject to an annual review by the Tree Board and may be
revised upon a majority vote by all members.
   (B)   A current version of the Official Street Tree Species List will be
kept on file and available for public viewing at any time during regular
business hours in the offices of the City Clerk.
   (C)   No species other than those included in the current Official Street
Tree Species List may be planted as street trees without written permission of
the Tree Board of the City of Holdrege.
(2005 Code, § 8-707) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-704 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the Official Street
Tree Species List with the exception of special plantings designed or approved
by a landscape architect.
(2005 Code, § 8-708) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-705 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the Official Street Tree Species List.
(2005 Code, § 8-709) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-706 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   (A)   No plantings above 18 inches are allowed on corners of intersecting
streets and alleys.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curb or curb line.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(2005 Code, § 8-710) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-707 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed in the Official Street Tree
Species List may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(2005 Code, § 8-711) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-708 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   This section does not prohibit the planting, pruning or removal of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
said trees is in accordance with this article and the Official Street Tree
Species List. It shall be unlawful, however, for any adjacent property owner to
plant or remove any street tree without first obtaining a permit from the
Municipal Services Director.
(2005 Code, § 8-712) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-709 TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, are exempted from
this article.
(2005 Code, § 8-713)
§ 8-710 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
sidewalk and a height of at least 12 feet above the surface of the street. Said
owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or broken or decayed
limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall
have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street
light, interferes with any utility wire or device or interferes with visibility
of any traffic-control device or sign.
   (B)   Street trees shall be kept trimmed by the abutting property owner at
least two feet back from all curbs, sidewalks, driveways or alleys. The same
shall at all times be kept trimmed to a height that would not constitute a
hazard to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
(2005 Code, § 8-714)
§ 8-711 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a
hazard to life and property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The city’s Tree Board will
notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said
owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice.
In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city
shall take the necessary legal steps to have the authority to remove such
trees, transmit a statement of the cost of such work to the governing body,
which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the land.
Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be
collected in the manner described by Neb. RS 14-543 through 14-549.
   (B)   The public must complete a tree complaint form if they have concerns
pertaining to a dead or diseased tree on private property. The tree complaint
form is on file in the city offices. After the complaint has been completed and
submitted to the Tree Board, it will be reviewed and handled accordingly.
(2005 Code, § 8-715) (Ord. 2435, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 8-712 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(2005 Code, § 8-716)
§ 8-713 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city’s Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this article.
(2005 Code, § 8-717)
§ 8-714 LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm who charges for his, her
or their service to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating
or removing street or park trees within the city without first applying for and
procuring a license. The license fee shall be $25 annually in advance;
provided, however, that, no license shall be required of any public service
company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service
endeavors.
   (B)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the city of any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(2005 Code, § 8-718)
§ 8-715 PERMIT REQUIRED TO PLANT TREES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree within the public right-of-way without
first obtaining a permit from the City of Holdrege. The owner of the property
adjacent to the street shall be responsible to obtain the necessary permit for
each occurrence at a specific property. The application for permit shall be
completed and submitted to the City of Holdrege Tree Board. After approval from
the Tree Board, the Municipal Services Director will issue the permit. A permit
is required for each tree planted on the right- of-way.
   (B)   The owner of the property adjacent to the street will be responsible
for the maintenance of the tree. Any mulching, staking, pruning/trimming,
removal or stumping is considered tree maintenance.
   (C)   If any such tree is determined to be a public nuisance, the City of
Holdrege may proceed against the owner of the property adjacent to the street.
(Ord. 2456, passed - -)
§ 8-716 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the city’s Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the city’s Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make a final decision.
(2005 Code, § 8-719) (Ord. 2456, passed - -)
ARTICLE 8: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
8-801   Violation; penalty
§ 8-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 8-801)
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
      
2.   BUILDING PERMITS
      
3.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
4.   BUILDING MOVING
      
5.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
6.   ADOPTED CODES
      
7.   CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
      
8.   MINIMUM STANDARDS HOUSING CODE
      
9.   PENAL PROVISION
      
10.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING INSPECTOR
Section
   
9-101   Authority
   
9-102   Inspection
   
9-103   Area of applicability
§ 9-101 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to enforce the regulations as
prescribed in this chapter and as provided and set forth in the applicable
sections of Ch. One of the International Building Code.
(2005 Code, § 9-101)
§ 9-102 INSPECTION.
    The Building Inspector or his or her assistant, upon notification from the
permit holder or his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the
building or structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction
as completed, or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the
work fails to comply with the requirements of the municipal code: foundation
inspection after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected;
inspection after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and
all pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; rough-in plumbing under floor in
walls before being covered; and final inspection after the building is
completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful for any person to do
work, or cause work to be done, beyond the point indicated in each successive
inspection without the written approval of the Building Inspector or his or her
assistant.
(2005 Code, § 9-102)
§ 9-103 AREA OF APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter, and the powers and authority of the Building
Inspector, shall be applicable within the corporate limits and within the
unincorporated zoning jurisdiction area beyond and adjacent to the city’s
corporate boundaries.
(2005 Code, § 9-103)
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING PERMITS
Section
   
9-201   Building permit required
   
9-202   Designation of fire limits
   
9-203   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
9-204   Fees
§ 9-201 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect, construct, repair, alter, enlarge,
demolish or relocate any building, dwelling, structure or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Building Inspector an application for a building
permit. A building permit is required when an accessory use structure is
greater than 120 square feet in size. A permit is not required for interior
remodeling that does not require structural alterations such as re-roofing,
siding, window replacement and similarities as determined by the Building
Inspector. The applications shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by
the Building Inspector for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions,
the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and contractor and such
other information as may be requested thereon.
   (B)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(2005 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 2406, passed 2-6-2018)
§ 9-202 DESIGNATION OF FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   All portions which shall comprise the area designated as C-2 District
in the Zoning Ordinance, the location and boundaries of which shall be found on
the map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of Holdrege” on file in the office of
the city.
   (B)   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or other masonry
materials.
(2005 Code, § 9-202)
§ 9-203 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the municipality’s jurisdiction and the improvement is
$1,000 or more, a report of such permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(2005 Code, § 9-203)
§ 9-204 FEES.
   The Building Inspector shall charge and collect fees for issuance of
permits. The amounts of such fees shall be set by resolution of the governing
body and on file in the office of the city.
(2005 Code, § 9-204)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
9-301   Maintenance
   
9-302   Footings, foundations, depth
   
9-303   Special provision: footings, floors, foundations
   
9-304   Concrete specifications
   
9-305   Roof load; wind load
   
9-306   Prefabricated buildings
   
9-307   Approval of materials
   
9-308   Prefabricated construction materials
   
9-309   Mobile and sectional homes
   
9-310   Basements
§ 9-301 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person in occupancy or control of
a building or structure to fail to maintain such building or structure in a
safe condition or to maintain in good working order any of the safeguards
prescribed in this article.
(2005 Code, § 9-301)
§ 9-302 FOOTINGS, FOUNDATIONS, DEPTH.
   Footings and foundations, unless otherwise specifically provided hereafter,
shall be concrete and extend below the frost line which is hereby declared to
be 36 inches below the finished surface of the ground. The minimum footing size
shall be 16 inches wide by eight inches thick, except as noted below.
(2005 Code, § 9-302)
§ 9-303 SPECIAL PROVISION: FOOTINGS, FLOORS, FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations for approved residential detached garages and small
storage sheds 720 square feet or less may be one of the following.
      (1)   Floors and foundations shall be concrete four inches thick with six
inch by six inch by ten ga steel mesh or approved fiber reinforced four-inch
concrete and thickened edges 12 inches below finished ground level.
      (2)   Foundations and footings for any size garage, except as above may
be poured concrete 36 inches below finished ground and eight inches wide.
   (B)   Minimum regulations for carports, column and pole supported structures
may be supported on a continuous eight-inch wide by 36-inch deep concrete
foundation wall or shall be a minimum of 12 inches of concrete around columns
or poles 36 inches below finished ground level. Footings under columns or poles
shall be a minimum of 12 square inches by eight inches thick and not over ten
feet apart. Non-loading bearing walls, including spaces between columns and
poles, shall have a concrete curtain wall a minimum of six inches wide and 12
inches below finished ground level. Regulations for pole supported agricultural
buildings, as defined in the Building Code, shall be as specifically provided
in the Building Code.
(2005 Code, § 9-303)
§ 9-304 CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Garages, basement, terrace and porch floors and walks, when made of
concrete, shall be of not less than four inches in thickness and shall be
placed on a compacted bed. Concrete driveways shall be of not less than four
inches in thickness.
(2005 Code, § 9-304)
§ 9-305 ROOF LOAD; WIND LOAD.
   (A)   All buildings shall be designed to meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   Roof design load shall be no less than 30 pounds per square foot,
except residential carports may be 20 pounds per square foot; and
      (2)   Wind load, 90 mph, exposure B.
   (B)   Provided, however, this section shall not apply to an approved
agricultural building, as defined in the Building Code, or small residential
storage sheds with floor space of 200 square feet or less.
(2005 Code, § 9-305) (Ord. 2318, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 9-306 PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may require a certificate of compliance to the
code signed and stamped by a registered engineer or architect. Prefabricated
assemblies shall sustain, without failure or undue deflection, test loads equal
to the combined dead load and the minimum live load strengths prescribed by
this article for construction generally. Due compensation shall be supplied for
loss of material in connection with the installation of pipes, conduits or
other equipment. Panels that are required to be tested shall be tested after
all chases and cavities for equipment have been cut. No additional material
shall be removed from any prefabricated assembly during construction of the
building or structure.
   (B)   Bolts or other devices designed to connect prefabricated assemblies
shall be capable of developing the strength of members connected and to resist
wind loads as specified in the provisions of this article pertaining to
construction generally. Connections consisting of bolts or other devices
between roofs and the supporting walls shall be capable of withstanding uplift
equal to not less than five pounds per square foot of horizontally projected
roof area in addition to withstanding the other stresses specified therein.
Individual units or sections of prefabricated assemblies, either wall, roof,
floor or ceiling, shall be so connected that joints shall be weather- and wind-
proof; and such joints shall be properly caulked in the approved manner and
covered, on the weather side, with approved battens or other approved weather
covering. This section shall not apply to housing units bearing the seal of the
state’s Department of Health certifying the compliance of the construction and
the systems of such units with Department standards.
(2005 Code, § 9-306)
§ 9-307 APPROVAL OF MATERIALS.
   The Building Inspector and City Engineer may approve or disapprove any
device, material or construction proposed to be used which is not specifically
provided for in this article, basing his or her decision upon the results of
satisfactory evidence from competent and impartial tests or investigations
conducted by the National Bureau of Standards, American Society for Testing
Materials, American Standards Association or other reputable agency, or made
under his or her direction, that such material or types of construction meet
the requirements of this article.
(2005 Code, § 9-307)
§ 9-308 PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   All materials, arrangements of materials and methods of construction
of prefabricated buildings or structures or prefabricated parts of buildings or
structures, before being used, shall be approved by the Building Inspector as
complying with the requirements of this article.
   (B)   If it appears to the Building Inspector that tests are necessary to
determine the stability of the structural design of any prefabricated assembly,
the Building Inspector may require such tests. During such tests, the assembly
shall be subjected to loads acting at the same points and in the same direction
as the loads that would fall upon it in the complete structure. The expense of
such tests shall be paid by the contractor or, if there is no contractor, the
owner of the property before the assembly is approved.
   (C)   Before the Building Inspector shall approve any prefabricated
assembly, the contractor or, if there is no contractor, the owner of the
property may be required to furnish a certificate, signed by a registered
engineer or architect, or testing agency approved by the Building Inspector, of
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If mechanical equipment has
been installed in an assembly in such a manner that it cannot be inspected by
the Building Inspector, the certificate shall also specify that such equipment
complies with the requirements of this chapter pertaining to the equipment. All
compensation for such certifying services shall be paid by the contractor or
owner of the property furnishing the certificate. Failure on the part of any
approved certifying agency to make the required inspections, or the making, by
any approved certifying agency, of false or improper certificates shall
constitute grounds for cancellation of approval of the agency by the Building
Inspector.
   (D)   In the case of prefabricated construction, the Building Inspector may
also inspect the placement of prefabricated assemblies at the building site.
The Building Inspector, in his or her discretion, may make a continuous
inspection during the assembling of sidewalls and roofs, in which event the
contractor or, if there is no contractor, the owner of the property shall pay
to the Building Inspector the cost as computed by the Mayor and Council of such
inspection.
(2005 Code, § 9-308)
§ 9-309 MOBILE AND SECTIONAL HOMES.
   (A)   Mobile and sectional homes where permitted outside mobile home parks
in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance shall not be required to meet the
provisions of the Building Code for design and construction, but shall meet the
requirements and approval of the state and the Mobile Home Manufacturers
Association.
   (B)   Bearing foundations shall be of concrete and shall be eight inches
wide and 36 inches below finished grade, or on 16-inch diameter piers,
extending 36 inches below finished grade with a maximum spacing of nine feet.
The outer perimeter of each home shall be enclosed with a concrete, masonry or
brick wall placed on an eight-inch wide footing extending 12 inches below
grade.
(2005 Code, § 9-309)
§ 9-310 BASEMENTS.
   All basements in residential dwellings shall have an approved egress window
from each bedroom and, if no bedrooms are in the basement, then at least one
approved egress window shall be installed in an approved location.
(2005 Code, § 9-310)
ARTICLE 4: BUILDING MOVING
Section
   
9-401   Moving of buildings into and within city
   
9-402   Regulations
§ 9-401 MOVING OF BUILDINGS INTO AND WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   No house, garage, building or other structure shall be moved into the
city or moved from one location within the city limits to another location
within the city without the affirmative vote of three-fourths of the members of
the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall not consider the requests of any party desiring
to move any structure into or within the city unless such request is
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A plot plan showing the structure on the lot or lots on which it
will be located;
      (2)   Recent photographs of the existing structure;
      (3)   Blueprints and specifications showing all structural changes that
are to be made in the building and a detailed list of interior and exterior
remodeling changes;
      (4)   A map showing the streets and avenues to be used in the movement of
such structure from its present location to its intended location within the
city;
      (5)   After preliminary approval by the Council, a performance bond in
the amount of $5,000 for the performance of such remodeling with the remodeling
to be complete within one year from the date of the bond; and
      (6)   The city reserves the right to determine whether or not the
specifications and blueprints have been complied with before the performance
bond will be released.
(2005 Code, § 9-401)
§ 9-402 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Should the moving of a house or building occur or be necessary in the
city and it becomes necessary in such work to remove or disturb any property of
the city or lines of the electric distribution system thereof, the same shall
not be done, except upon reasonable written notice to and written authority
from the city so that the Utility Superintendent may arrange accordingly
without disturbance of service.
   (B)   The City Council shall approve the route over which such building or
house shall be moved.
   (C)   Any expense incidental to the moving of the building or lines of the
electric distribution of the city shall be borne entirely by the owner of the
house or moving contractor. The Utility Superintendent and Municipal Services
Director shall view the building or structure to be moved and the route of
moving, shall ascertain to what extent the wires and apparatus of the power
system shall have to be removed, and all other expenses including, but not
limited to, traffic control, sign removal and tree trimming, and shall estimate
the expense thereof.
   (D)   Should the building or device being moved be of such shape and size
that moving of the structure would not require the undue hazards to the general
public, and has received approval of the City Council, the owner shall deposit
with the city an amount of money equal to the estimated expense of the move,
and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid will be returned to the
applicant or any expenses exceeding the deposit shall be paid to the city by
the owner. The mover or owner shall furnish a certificate of proof of liability
insurance in an amount as required by the city, that would hold the city
harmless from all claims for damages to property and personal injury that may
result from the movement of such device, building or house from place to place.
   (E)   The mover or owner performing the house, building or device moving
work will arrange for the removal, repair and replacement of all other
utilities, trees, signs and any other objects that may be disturbed during the
performance of work, that are not the responsibility of the electric power
utility or the Municipal Services Department.
   (F)   The Municipal Services Director shall have complete authority and
control of the move. The mover and/or owner shall follow all instructions of
the Municipal Services Director while the moving equipment is on the public
streets and rights-of-way of the city. The owner may be required to sign an
agreement with the city stating he or she will abide by the terms of the
agreement and city ordinances.
   (G)   No person shall violate the provisions of this section and shall not
undertake such work without the approval of the city.
(2005 Code, § 9-402)
ARTICLE 5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-501   Definition
   
9-502   Prohibition
   
9-503   Determination and notice
   
9-504   Hearing and appeal
   
9-505   Special assessments
§ 9-501 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this article, is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition,
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; and
      (3)   Which, by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
such structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(2005 Code, § 9-501)
§ 9-502 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(2005 Code, § 9-502)
§ 9-503 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the City Engineer, the fire official,
the health official or the governing body shall be of the opinion that any
building or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he, she or it
shall file a written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The
Clerk shall thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall
file a copy of such determination in the office of the county’s Register of
Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner thereof and upon the
occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice
shall state that the building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition;
and that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or
altering the building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must have
begun to be remedied within 30 days from the date of receipt. Such notice may
be in the following terms:
 
To  (owner-occupant of premises)  of the premises known and described as                                             .
 
You are hereby notified that  (describe building)  on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building
and a nuisance after inspection by                                                        . The causes for this decision are
(here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition)  .
 
You must commence to make changes, repairs or alterations which will remedy this condition or demolish the building within 30
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made
to the governing body, acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the date of
receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.
 
 
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(2005 Code, § 9-503)
§ 9-504 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the
sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If, after
the five-day period, the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the governing body shall be stayed.
(2005 Code, § 9-504)
§ 9-505 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; and
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 9-505)
ARTICLE 6: ADOPTED CODES
Section
   
9-601   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
9-602   Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
9-603   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
   
9-604   National Fire Protection Association Code 58; adopted by reference
§ 9-601 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
usage and stable design methods of construction and uses of materials in
buildings hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired,
relocated and converted. The 2018 International Residential Code for one and
two family dwellings published by the International Code Council, Inc. is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference excluding Appendixes A, B, C, D,
E, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T and Sections R106.3, Rl06.3.1,
R106.3.2, R109.1, R109.1.1, R109.1.2, R109.1.3, R109.1.4, R109.1.5, R109.1.5.1,
R109.1.6, R110.1, R110.2, R110.3, R110.4, R110.5, Chapter 3, Section R313 and
Chapters 12 through 43.
   (B)   The 2018 International Residential Code for one and two family
dwellings published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted
incorporated by reference Appendix F only the following sections: AF103.4.4,
AF103.6, AF103.6.1, AF103.6.2, AF103.9, and AF103.12 eliminating the last
sentence of AF103.12 and all of Appendix J. Table R301.2 (1) shall read as
follows: Ground Snow Load (25 lbs. per sq. ft.); Wind Speed (90 mph);
Weathering (Severe); Frost Line Depth (36"); Termite (Moderate to Heavy); Ice
Shield Underlayment (No); Air Freezing Index (No).
   (C)   The 2018 International Building Code published by the International
Code Council except for all Appendixes and for the provisions of Sections
101.4, 101.4.1, 101.4.2, 101.4.3, 101.4.4, 101.4.6, 101.4.7, 107.3, 107.3.1,
107.3.2, 110.3, 110.3.1,110.3.2, 110.3.3, 110.3.4, 110.3.5, 110.3.6,
110.3.7,110.3.8,110.3.9, 110.3.10, 110.3.11, 111.1, 111.2, 111.3, 111.4, the
2018 International Energy Conservation Code published by the International Code
Council; and the Nebraska Accessibility Guidelines are all hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said Codes does not conflict with the statutes of the
State of Nebraska. In the event conflict arises between the International
Residential Code and/or the International Building Code and/or the Holdrege
Municipal Code, the Holdrege Municipal Code and amendments shall govern. Copies
of the Codes are on file at the City Offices and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of these Codes shall be
controlling throughout the Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 2317, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 2421, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 9-602 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating. The Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition
and Appendixes A, B, C, E, H, I and K, except for provisions of Sections 104.4,
104.5, 104.5.2 and Chapter 12, published by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, (IAPMO), and the printed book or pamphlet
form of the Plumbing Code of the City of Holdrege are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions, including such
amendments, deletions and additions which the Holdrege City Council may make,
as though printed in full herein insofar as said Codes do not conflict with the
statutes of the State of Nebraska. In the event conflict arises between the
Uniform Plumbing Code and the City of Holdrege Plumbing Code or amendments, the
City Code shall govern. Natural gas piping installation shall be permitted,
inspected and approved by the franchise gas supplier to the City of Holdrege
and subject to their rules and regulations. Copies of the City of Holdrege
Plumbing Code and the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, are on file at the
City Offices and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Codes shall be controlling through the Municipality and
throughout its Zoning Jurisdiction. The Building Inspector shall charge and
collect fees for issuance of permits. The amount of such fees shall be set by
Resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the City Offices.
(2005 Code, § 9-602) (Ord. 2317, passed 12-1-2009; Ord. 2422, passed 2-5-2019)
§ 9-603 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and fire-proof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials
in the installation of electrical wiring and appliances.
   (B)   The National Electrical Code, latest edition and amendments as adopted
by the state and published by the National Fire Protection Association, is
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(2005 Code, § 9-603) (Ord. 2317, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 9-604 NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION CODE 58; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of liquefied petroleum gases. The National Fire Protection
Association Code 58 is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2333, passed 3-15-2011)
ARTICLE 7: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
Section
   
9-701   Registration required
   
9-702   Registration suspension
   
9-703   Building construction by owner
   
9-704   Certificate of insurance
   
9-705   Reroofing contractors; registration required; registration suspension;
construction by owner; certificate of insurance
§ 9-701 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   To guarantee faithful performance and compliance with the Building
Code and all other provisions of this code and city ordinances pertaining to
construction in the city’s jurisdiction, anyone doing building construction
requiring a building permit shall be considered a building contractor and shall
be registered with the city.
   (B)   No person or company shall engage in or work at the business or trade
of building construction in the jurisdiction of the city until he or she has
registered as a building contractor with the city. Each registration shall be
in the name of the person, the contractor or the owner of the company.
   (C)   Application for registration under the provisions of this code shall
be made to the city offices. Such applicant shall include the name, address and
phone number of the applicant, the business location of the applicant and proof
of insurance. Such application shall be accompanied by a registration fee as
set by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Registration shall expire on April 30 during the year following the
date of issuance and shall not be assigned.
(2005 Code, § 9-701)
§ 9-702 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION.
   Continued violation of the provisions of the city’s Building Code or Zoning
Ordinance may result in the suspension of a building contractor’s registration
until such time as the violations shall have been corrected to the satisfaction
of the city.
(2005 Code, § 9-702)
§ 9-703 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   All building construction by the owner shall comply with the
requirements of the city’s Building Code and Zoning Ordinance and, in such
event, the word “owner” shall be substituted for the word “building contractor”
through this code; provided that, said owner shall:
      (1)   Apply for and secure a permit;
      (2)   File plans and specifications with the city;
      (3)   Pay required fees;
      (4)   Do the work in accordance with the city’s Building Code;
      (5)   Apply for inspections; and
      (6)   Does not need to be insured or registered.
   (B)   Personal installation of owner (other than building contractor) shall
be by himself or herself, for himself or herself, on property owned by him or
her containing residential single-family dwellings and accessory buildings and/
or residential single-family or two-family rental dwellings and related
accessory building, and not a non-residential commercial building, without
compensation or pay from any other person for such labor or installation. The
owner exercising this privilege shall not set himself or herself up as a
building contractor.
(2005 Code, § 9-703)
§ 9-704 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each such building contractor shall furnish to the city a policy or
policies of insurance as follows: providing coverage for minimum public
liability in the amount as set by resolution of the City Council for combined
single limits or its equivalent, with the city named as an additional insured.
   (B)   Such policy shall provide that a 30-day written notice shall be given
to the City Clerk in the event of expiration of or proposed cancellation of
such insurance policy.
(2005 Code, § 9-704)
§ 9-705 REROOFING CONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED; REGISTRATION SUSPENSION;
CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER; CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   To guarantee faithful performance and compliance with the provisions
of city ordinances pertaining to reroofing in the city’s jurisdiction, anyone
doing reroofing shall be considered a reroofing contractor and shall be
registered with the city. No person or company shall engage in or work at the
business or trade of reroofing in the jurisdiction of the city until he or she
has registered as a reroofing contractor with the city. Each registration shall
be in the name of the person, the contractor or the owner of the company.
Application for registration under the provisions of this code shall be made to
the city offices. Such applicant shall include the name, address and phone
number of the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and proof of
insurance. Such application shall be accompanied by a registration fee as set
by resolution of the City Council. Registration shall expire on April 30 during
the year following the date of issuance and shall not be assigned.
(2005 Code, § 9-705)
   (B)   Continued violation of the provisions of the city’s Building Code may
result in the suspension of a reroofing contractor’s registration until such
time as the violations shall have been corrected to the satisfaction of the
city.
(2005 Code, § 9-706)
   (C)   (1)   All reroofing by the owner shall comply with the requirements of
the city’s Building Code and, in such event, the word “owner” shall be
substituted for the word “reroofing contractor” through this code; provided
that, said owner shall:
         (a)   Pay required fees;
         (b)   Do the work in accordance with the city’s Building Code; and
         (c)   Does not need to be insured or registered.
      (2)   Personal installation of owner (other than reroofing contractor)
shall be by himself or herself, for himself or herself, in his or her own
private building and not a commercial building, without compensation or pay
from any other person for such labor or installation. The owner exercising this
privilege shall not set himself or herself up as a reroofing contractor.
(2005 Code, § 9-707)
   (D)   (1)   Each such reroofing contractor shall furnish to the city a
policy or policies of insurance as follows: providing coverage for minimum
public liability in the amount as set by resolution of the City Council for
combined single limits or its equivalent, with the city named as an additional
insured.
      (2)   Such policy shall provide that a 30-day written notice shall be
given to the City Clerk in the event of expiration of or proposed cancellation
of such insurance policy.
(2005 Code, § 9-708)
ARTICLE 8: MINIMUM STANDARDS HOUSING CODE
Section
   
9-801   Title and scope
   
9-802   Definitions
   
9-803   Responsibility of the occupants
   
9-804   Responsibilities of the owner
   
9-805   Minimum standards
   
9-806   Administrative procedures complaint
   
9-807   Service of reports, notices, complaints or orders
   
9-808   Failure to comply with order
   
9-809   Duties of legal officer
   
9-810   Judicial review
   
9-811   Emergency action without notice
   
9-812   Building Inspector; responsibility; powers and duties; appeals
   
9-813   Personal liability
   
9-814   Financial interests
   
9-815   Board of Appeals
   
9-816   Variances
§ 9-801 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This article shall be known as the “Minimum Standards Housing Code”,
may be cited as such and is herein referred to as “this code” or “this
article”.
   (B)   This article shall apply to all buildings or portions thereof used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation, excluding such
institutional buildings as jails, hospitals and public health facilities.
(2005 Code, § 9-802)
§ 9-802 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. Room or suite of rooms occupied or which is intended or designed
to be occupied, as the home or residence of one individual, family or
household, for housekeeping purposes.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof which is designed, built,
rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied or which is occupied as a home
or resident of more than two families living independently of each other.
   APPROVED. Approval by the Building Inspector under the provisions of this
code, or approved by other authority designated by law to give approval in the
matter in question.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building partly underground, but having less than
one-half its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, which is used, or
designed or intended to be used for human habitation, for living, sleeping,
cooking or eating purposes or any combination thereof.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The officer charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code or his or her regularly authorized assistant.
   CELLAR. The portion of the building partly underground, having one-half or
more than one-half of its clear height below the average grade of the adjoining
ground used solely for storage purposes.
   DWELLING. Any building or mobile home, or part thereof, used and occupied by
human habitation or intended to be so used; “temporary housing”, hereinafter
defined, shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with living, sleeping, cooking and eating
facilities.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
   FAMILY. A group of persons related by blood, marriage or adoption within and
including the degree of first cousins.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used, or intended to be used,
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets and storage
spaces.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Legally designated head of the Department of Health of any
city, governmental unit or combination thereof.
   HOTEL. See ROOMING HOUSE.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping or eating in, or having actual
possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable title in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not; or any person
who shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
building as owner or agent of the OWNER or as executor, administrator, trustees
or guardian of the estate of the owner.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership or
trust.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies facilities and equipment: gas pipe;
gas-burning equipment; water pipes; garbage disposal units; waste pipes;
toilets; sinks; dishwashers; lavatories; bathtubs; shower baths; clothes
washers; catch basin; drains; vents; and any other similar supplies fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let for money or other in-kind services
by the owner to five or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or
daughter, mother or father or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. All waste materials, except garbage, and the term shall include the
residue from the burning of wood, coal and other combustible material, paper,
rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
(2005 Code, § 9-802)
§ 9-803 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The following are the occupant’s responsibility:
      (1)   To keep the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises he or she controls
and occupies in a clean and sanitary condition;
      (2)   To dispose of rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner as
prescribed by city regulations;
      (3)   To hang and remove screens and storm doors and windows provided by
the owner, except where the owner has agreed to supply such services;
      (4)   To keep plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and to exercise reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof; and
      (5)   To exterminate in the following cases:
         (a)   The occupant of a single dwelling is responsible for
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and
         (b)   The occupant of a single dwelling unit in a multiple unit
structure is responsible for extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests if his or her unit is the only unit infested.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by the failure of the owner to maintain the dwelling in a
rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, the occupant is not
responsible for extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein.
   (C)   No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the
facilities, equipment or any part of the structure of a dwelling unit,
dwelling, multi-dwelling or apartment.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a dwelling to
utilize the premises of such dwelling for the open storage of any abandoned
motor vehicle, obsolete appliances, glass and building material, building
rubbish or similar items.
      (2)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every such owner or
occupant to keep the premises of such residential property clean and to remove
from the premises all such abandoned items, as listed above, including, but not
limited to, weeds, litter, dead trees, trash or garbage upon notice from the
Building Inspector.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is defined
as one that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its
own power.
(2005 Code, § 9-802)
§ 9-804 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   The following are the owner’s responsibilities:
   (A)   Where there are two or more dwelling units, to maintain in a clean and
sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof;
   (B)   To have dwelling in clean, sanitary, habitable condition, free from
infestation before renting or leasing; to paint walls and ceilings and to
clean, repair and exterminate if needed to meet forecasted requirements before
offering for rent or lease;
   (C)   To provide every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space with screens and a self-closing device; and every window or other device
openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation with
screens;
   (D)   To exterminate in the following cases of infestation:
      (1)   When infestation exists in two or more units of a multiple-unit
structure;
      (2)   When infestation exists in shared or public areas of a multiple-
unit structure; and/or
      (3)   When infestation exists in a single-unit of a multiple-unit
structure or in a single-unit structure when infestation is due to failure of
the owner to maintain the dwelling in a rodent-proof and reasonably insect-
proof condition.
   (E)   To perform the responsibilities of the occupant when premises are
vacant; and
   (F)   To furnish appropriate outside garbage receptacles and make agreement
with tenant for removal of garbage.
(2005 Code, § 9-802)
§ 9-805 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Living room.
      (1)   Living room “present”. If the unit is an efficiency apartment,
consider the living room “present”.
      (2)   Electricity.
         (a)   In order to qualify, two separate outlets must be present and
properly installed in the baseboard, wall or floor of the room. Do not count a
single duplex receptacle as two outlets (i.e., there must be two of these in
the room or one of these, plus a permanently installed ceiling or wall light
fixture).
         (b)   Both the outlets and/or the light must be working. Usually, a
room will have sufficient lights or electrical appliances plugged into outlets
to determine workability. Be sure light fixture does not fail just because the
bulb is burned out.
         (c)   Do not count any of the following items or fixtures as outlets/
fixtures: table or floor lamps (these are not permanent light fixtures);
ceiling lamps plugged into socket; extension cords.
         (d)   If the electric service to the unit has been temporarily turned
off check “inconclusive”. Contact owner or manager after inspection to verify
that electricity functions properly when service is turned on. Record this
information on the checklist.
      (3)   Electrical hazards.
         (a)   Examples of what this means: broken wiring; non-insulated
wiring; frayed wiring; improper types of wiring, connections or insulation;
wires lying in or located near standing water or other unsafe places; light
fixture hanging from electric wiring without other firm support or fixture;
missing cover plates on switches or outlets; badly cracked outlets; exposed
fuse box connections; overloaded circuits evidenced by frequently “blown” fuses
(ask the tenant).
         (b)   Check “inconclusive” if uncertain about severity of the problem
and seek expert advice.
      (4)   Security.
         (a)   ACCESSIBLE TO OUTSIDE means doors open to the outside or to a
common public hall; windows accessible from the outside (e.g., basement and
first floor); windows or doors leading onto a fire escape, porch or other
outside place that can be reached from the ground.
         (b)   LOCKABLE means the window or door has a properly working lock,
or is nailed shut, or the window is not designed to be opened. A storm window
lock that is working properly is acceptable. Windows that are nailed shut are
acceptable only if these windows are not needed for ventilation or as an
alternate exit in case of fire.
      (5)   Window condition.
         (a)   Rate the windows in the room (including windows in doors).
         (b)   SEVERE DETERIORATION means that the window no longer has the
capacity to keep out the wind and the rain or is a cutting hazard. Examples
are: missing or broken-out panes; dangerously loose cracked panes; windows that
will not close; windows that, when closed, do not form a reasonably tight seal.
         (c)   If more than one window in the room is in this condition, give
details in the space provided on the right of the inspection form.
         (d)   If there is only “moderate deterioration” of the windows the
item should “pass”. MODERATE DETERIORATION means windows which are reasonably
weather-tight, but show evidence of some aging, abuse or lack of repair. Signs
of deterioration are: minor crack in window pane; splintered sill; signs of
some minor rotting in the window frame or the window itself; window panes loose
because of missing window putty. If more than one window is in this condition,
give details in the space provided on the right of the inspection form.
      (6)   Ceiling condition.
         (a)   UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS means the presence of such serious defects
that either a potential exists for structural collapse, or that large cracks or
holes allow significant drafts to enter the unit. The condition includes:
severe bulging or buckling; large holes; missing parts; falling or in danger of
falling, loose surface materials.
         (b)   Pass ceilings that are basically sound, but have some non-
hazardous defects, including: small holes or cracks; missing or broken ceiling
tiles; water stains; soiled surfaces; unpainted surfaces; peeling paint.
      (7)   Wall condition.
         (a)   UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS includes: serious defects such that the
structural safety of the building is threatened, such as severe buckling,
bulging or leaning; damaged or loose structural members; large holes; air
infiltration.
         (b)   Pass walls that are basically sound that have some non-hazardous
defects, including: small or shallow holes; cracks; loose or missing parts;
unpainted surfaces; peeling paint.
      (8)   Floor condition.
         (a)   UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS means the presence of such serious defects
that a potential exists for structural collapse or other threats to safety
(e.g., tripping) or large cracks or holes allow substantial drafts from below
the floor. The condition includes: severe buckling or major movements under
walking stress; damaged or missing parts.
         (b)   Pass floors that are basically sound, but have some non-
hazardous defects, including: heavily worn or damaged floor surface (for
example, scratches or gouges in surface, missing portions of tile or linoleum,
previous water damage). If there is a floor covering, also note the condition,
especially if badly worn or soiled.
   (B)   Kitchen.
      (1)   Kitchen area present. A kitchen is an area used for preparation of
meals. It may be either a separate room or an area of a larger room (e.g., a
kitchen area in an efficiency apartment).
      (2)   Explanation. Explanation for these items is the same as that
provided for “living room” with the following modifications.
         (a)   Electricity. The requirement is that at least one outlet and one
permanent light fixture are present and working. All counter top outlets and
outlets within four feet of water must have a ground fault circuit interrupter
(GFI). Receptacle outlets shall not be installed in a face-up position in the
work surface of counter tops.
         (b)   Window condition. The absence of a window does not fail this
item in the kitchen. If there is no window, check “pass”.
         (c)   Stove or range with oven.
            1.   Both an oven and a stove or range with top burners must be
present and working. If either is missing and one knows that the owner is
responsible for supplying these appliances, check “fail”. Put check in
“inconclusive” column if the tenant is responsible for supplying the appliances
and he or she has not yet moved in. Contact tenant or prospective tenant to
gain verification that appliance will be supplied and is in working condition.
Hot plates are not acceptable substitutes for these appliances.
            2.   An oven is not working if it will not heat up. To be working a
stove or range must have all burners working and knobs to turn them off and on.
A gas shut-off valve shall be installed on an approved line within three feet
of the appliance. Under “working condition”, also look for hazardous gas hook-
ups evidenced by strong gas smells; these should fail. (Be sure that this
condition is not confused with an unlit pilot light, a condition that should be
noted, but does not fail.)
            3.   If both an oven and a stove or range is present, but the gas
or electricity is turned off, check “inconclusive”. Contact owner or manager to
get verification that appliance works when gas or electricity is turned on. If
both an oven and a stove or range is present and working, but defects exist,
check “pass” and note these to the right of the form. Possible defects are
marked, dented or scratched surfaces; cracked burner rings; limited size
relative to family needs.
            4.   A microwave oven may be substituted for a tenant-supplied oven
and stove or range.
            5.   A microwave oven may be substituted for an owner supplied oven
and stove or range if the tenant agrees and a microwave oven is furnished
instead of oven and stove or range.
         (d)   Refrigerator.
            1.   If no refrigerator is present, use the same criteria for
marking either “fail” or “inconclusive” as were used for the oven and stove or
range. A refrigerator is not working if it will not maintain a temperature low
enough to keep food from spoiling over a reasonable period of time. If the
electricity is turned off, mark “inconclusive”. Contact the owner (or tenant if
unit is occupied) to get verification of working condition.
            2.   If the refrigerator is present and working, but defects exist,
note these to the right of the form. Possible minor defects include: broken or
missing interior shelving; dented or scratched interior or exterior surfaces;
minor deterioration of door seal; loose door handle.
         (e)   Sink.
            1.   If a permanently attached kitchen sink is not present in the
kitchen or kitchen area, mark “fail”. A sink in a bathroom or a portable basin
will not satisfy this requirement. A sink is not working unless it has running
hot and cold water from the faucets and a properly connected and properly
working drain (with a “gas trap”). In a vacant apartment, the hot water may
have been turned off and there will be no hot water. Mark this “inconclusive”.
Check with owner or manager to verify that hot water is available when service
is turned on.
            2.   If a working sink has defects, note this to the right of the
item. Possible minor defects include: dripping faucet; marked, dented or
scratched surface; slow drain; missing or broken drain stopper.
         (f)   Space for storage, preparation and serving of food.
            1.   Some space must be available for the storage, preparation and
serving of food. If there is not built-in space for food storage and
preparation, a table used for food preparation and a portable storage cabinet
will satisfy the requirement. If there is no built-in space, and no room for a
table and portable cabinet, check “inconclusive” and discuss with the tenant.
The tenant makes the final determination as to whether or not this space is
acceptable.
            2.   If there are some minor defects, check “pass” and make notes
to the right of the item. Possible defects include: marked, dented or scratched
surfaces; broken shelving or cabinet doors; broken drawers or cabinet hardware;
limited size relative to family needs.
   (C)   Bathroom.
      (1)   Bathroom present. Most units have easily identifiable bathrooms
(i.e., a separate room with toilet, wash basin and tub or shower). In some
cases, however, one will encounter units with scattered bathroom facilities
(i.e., toilet, wash basin and tub or shower located in separate parts of the
unit). At a minimum, there must be an enclosure around the toilet. In this
case, count the enclosure around the toilet as the bathroom and proceed with
the items below, with respect to this enclosure. If there is more than one
bathroom that is normally used, rate the one that is in best condition for Part
3. If there is a second bathroom that is also used, complete Part 4 of the
checklist for this room. (See Inspection Manual for additional notes on rating
the second bathroom.)
      (2)   Explanation. Explanation for these items is the same as provided
for “Living Room” with the following modifications.
         (a)   Electricity. The requirement is that at least one permanent
light fixture is present and working. All outlets must have ground fault
circuit interrupters (GFI). There should be at least one outlet no further than
three feet from the sink.
         (b)   Electrical hazards. In addition to the previously mentioned
hazards, outlets that are located where water might splash or collect are
considered an electrical hazard.
         (c)   Window condition. The absence of a window does not fail this
item in the bathroom (see subsection (C)(2)(i) below for relevance of window
with respect to ventilation). If there is no window, but a working vent system
is present, check “pass”.
         (d)   Wall condition. Include under non-hazardous defects (that would
pass, but should be noted) the following: broken or loose tile; deteriorated
grouting at tub/wall and tub/floor joints or tiled surfaces; water stains.
         (e)   Floor condition. Include under non-hazardous defects (that would
pass, but should be noted) the following: missing floor tiles; water stains.
         (f)   Flush toilet in enclosed room in unit.
            1.   The toilet must be contained within the unit, be in proper
operating condition and be available for the exclusive use of the occupants of
the unit (i.e., outhouses or facilities shared by occupants of other units are
not acceptable). It must allow for privacy.
            2.   NOT WORKING means the toilet is not connected to a water
supply; it is not connected to a sewer drain; it is clogged; it does not have a
trap; the connections, vents or traps are faulty to the extent that severe
leakage of water or escape of gases occurs; the flushing mechanism does not
function properly. If the water to the unit has been turned off, check
“inconclusive”. Obtain verification from owner or manager that facility works
properly when water is turned on. Comment to the right of the form if the
toilet is “present, exclusive and working”, but has the following types of
defects: constant running; chipped or broken porcelain; slow draining. If drain
blockage is more serious and occurs further in the sewer line causing backup,
check item G.8 “fail”, under the plumbing and heating part of the checklist. A
sign of serious sewer blockage is the presence of numerous backed-up drains.
         (g)   Fixed wash basin or lavatory in unit.
            1.   The wash basin must be permanently installed (i.e., a portable
wash basin does not satisfy the requirement). Also, a kitchen sink used to pass
the requirements under Part B of the checklist (kitchen facilities) cannot also
serve as the bathroom wash basin. The wash basin may be located separate from
the other bathroom facilities (e.g., in a hallway).
            2.   NOT WORKING means the wash basin is not connected to a system
that will deliver hot and cold running water; it is not connected to a properly
operating drain; the connectors (or vents or traps) are faulty to the extent
that severe leakage of water or escape of sewer gases occurs. If the water to
the unit or the hot water unit has been turned off, check “inconclusive”.
Obtain verification from owner or manager that the system is in working
condition.
            3.   Comment to the right of the form if the wash basin is “present
and working”, but has the following types of minor defects: insufficient water
pressure; dripping faucets; minor leaks; cracked or chipped porcelain; slow
drain. (See subsection (C)(2)(g)1. above.)
         (h)   Tub or shower in unit.
            1.   Not present means that neither a tub nor shower is present in
the unit. Again, these facilities need not be in the same room with the rest of
the bathroom facilities. They must, however, be private.
            2.   Not working covers the same requirements detailed above for
washbasin.
            3.   Comment to the right of the form if the tub or shower is
present and working, but has the following types of defects: dripping faucet;
minor leaks; cracked porcelain; slow drain (see discussion hereunder); absent
or broken support rod for shower curtain.
         (i)   Ventilation. Working vent systems include: ventilation shafts
(non-mechanical vents) and electric fans. Electric vent fans must function when
switch is turned on. (Make sure than any malfunctions are not due to the fan
not being plugged in.) If electric current to the unit has not been turned on
(and there is no window that opens), check “inconclusive”. Obtain verification
from owner or manager that system works. Note: exhaust vents must be vented to
the outside, attic or crawl space.
   (D)   Other room used for living and halls.
      (1)   Other rooms.
         (a)   Complete an “other room” checklist for as many “other rooms used
for living” as are present in the unit and not already noted in Parts A, B and
C of the checklist. See the discussion below for definition of “used for
living”. Also complete an “other room” checklist for all entrance halls,
corridors and staircases that are located within the unit and are part of the
area used for living. If a hall, entry and/or stairway are contiguous, rate
them as a whole (i.e., as part of one space).
         (b)   Additional forms for rating “other rooms” are provided in the
checklist.
         (c)   Rooms USED FOR LIVING are areas of the unit that are walked
through or lived in on a regular basis. Do not include rooms or other areas
that have been permanently, or near permanently, closed off or areas that are
infrequently entered. For example, do not include a utility room, attached
shed, attached closed-in porch, basement or garage if they are closed off from
the main living area or are infrequently entered. Do include any of these areas
if they are frequently used (e.g., a finished basement/playroom, a closed-in
porch that is used as a bedroom during summer months). Occasional use of a
washer or dryer in an otherwise unused room does not constitute regular use.
         (d)   If the unit is vacant and you do not know the eventual use of a
particular room, complete an “other room” checklist if there is any chance that
the room will be used on a regular basis. If there is no chance that the room
will be used on a regular basis, do not include it (e.g., an unfinished
basement), since it will be checked under Part E, all secondary rooms (rooms
not used for living).
         (e)   For staircases, the adequacy of light and condition of the stair
rails and railings is covered under Part H of the checklist (general health and
safety).
      (2)   Room code and room location.
         (a)   Enter the appropriate room code given below:
 
Room Codes
1          Bedroom or any other room used for sleeping (regardless of type of
           room)
2          Dining room or dining area
3          Second living room, family room, den, playroom, TV room
4          Entrance halls, corridors, halls, staircases
5          Additional bathroom (also check presence of sink trap and clogged
           toilet)
6          Other
 
         (b)   Room location: write on the line provided the location of the
room with respect to the unit’s width, length and floor level as if you were
standing outside the unit facing the entrance to the unit. Right/left/center:
record whether the room is situated to the right, left of center of the unit.
Front/rear/center: record whether the room is situated to the back, front or
center of the unit. Floor level: identify the floor level on which the room is
located. If the unit is vacant, you may have some difficulty predicting the
eventual use of a room. Before giving any room a code of “1” (bedroom), the
room must meet all the requirements for a “room used for sleeping”.
      (3)   Explanations. Explanations of these items are the same as those
provided for “living room” with the following modifications:
         (a)   Electricity/illumination. If the room code is not a “1”, the
room must have a means of natural or artificial illumination such as a
permanent light fixture, wall outlet present or light from a window in the room
or near the room. If there is a wet bar present, outlets within six feet of the
wet bar must have ground fault circuit interrupters (GFI). If any required item
is missing, check “fail”. If the electricity is turned off, check
“inconclusive”.
         (b)   Window condition. Any room used for sleeping must have at least
one window able to open. The minimum standards do not require a window in
“other rooms”. Therefore, if there is no window in another room not used for
sleeping, check “pass” and note “no window” in the area for comments. Below
grade windows used for sleeping must have egress windows.
         (c)   Smoke detectors.
            1.   At least one battery-operated or hard-wired smoke detector
must be present and working in each sleeping room and on each level of the
unit, including the basement, but not crawl spaces and unfinished attic.
            2.   Smoke detectors must be installed in accordance with and meet
the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association Standard (NFPA)
74.
            3.   If the dwelling unit is occupied by any hearing-impaired
person, smoke detectors must have an alarm system designed for hearing-impaired
persons as specified in NFPA 74.
   (E)   All secondary rooms (rooms not used for living).
      (1)   If any room in the unit did not meet the requirements for “other
room used for living” in Part D, it is to be considered a “secondary room (not
used for living).” Rate all of these rooms together (i.e., a single Part E
checklist for all secondary rooms in the unit).
      (2)   Inspection is required of the following two items since hazardous
defects under these items could jeopardize the rest of the unit, even if
present in rooms not used for living: E.2, Security; E.3, Electrical Hazards.
Also, be observant of any other potentially hazardous features in these rooms
and record under subsection (E)(4) below.
      (3)   If there are no “secondary rooms (rooms not used for living)”,
check “none” and go on to Part F.
      (4)   Explanations of these items is the same as those provided for
“living room”. Additional note: in recording “other potentially hazardous
features”, note (in the space provided) the means of access to the room with
the hazard and check the box under “inconclusive”. Include defects like: large
holes in floor, walls or ceilings; evidence of structural collapse; windows in
condition of severe deterioration; and deteriorated paint surfaces.
   (F)   Building exterior.
      (1)   Condition of foundation. UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS means foundations
with severe structural defects, indicating the potential for structural
collapse; or foundations that allow significant entry of ground water (for
example, evidenced by flooding of basement).
      (2)   Condition of stairs, rails and porches. UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS means:
stairs, porches, balconies or decks with severe structural defects; broken,
rotting or missing steps; absence of a handrail when there are extended lengths
of steps (generally two or more consecutive steps); absence of or insecure
railings around a porch or balcony which is approximately 30 inches or more
above the ground.
      (3)   Condition of roof and gutters. UNSOUND or HAZARDOUS means the roof
has serious defects such as serious buckling or sagging, indicating the
potential of structural collapse; large holes or other defects that would
result in significant air or water infiltration (in most cases, severe exterior
defects will be reflected in equally serious surface defects within the unit)
(e.g., buckling, water damage). The gutters, downspouts and soffits (area under
the eaves) show serious decay and have allowed the entry of significant air or
water into the interior of the structure. Gutters and downspouts are, however,
not required to pass. If the roof is not observable and there is no sign of
interior water damage, check “pass”.
      (4)   Condition of exterior surfaces. See definition of above for roof in
subsection (F)(3) above.
      (5)   Condition of chimney. The chimney should not be seriously leaning
or showing evidence of significant disintegration (i.e., many missing bricks).
If the chimney is in use, it should have a liner with a weather cap.
      (6)   Manufactured homes: tie downs. Manufactured homes must be placed on
a site in a stable manner and be free from hazards such as sliding and wind
damage. Manufactured homes must be securely anchored by a tied down device
which distributes and transfers the loads imposed by the unit to appropriate
ground anchors so as to resist wind overturning and sliding.
      (7)   Storm doors and screens. Storm doors and screen in good repair will
be required if the structure in the past shows evidence of them or if they are
currently on the unit, but in poor condition, or if the unit structurally will
allow them and be beneficial to the unit for ventilation and/or energy
conservation. Screen and storm doors may not be required on some units that are
structurally not designed for the installation of these (example: front doors
with a bricked frame). Any operable window must have a screen in good
condition.
   (G)   Heating and plumbing.
      (1)   Adequacy of heating equipment.
         (a)   ADEQUATE HEAT means that the heating system is capable of
delivering enough heat to assure a healthy environment in the unit, will heat
to a temperature of 70°F at a distance of three feet above floor level, when
the temperature outside is -10°F. Portable electric room heaters or kitchen
stoves or ranges within a built-in heat unit are not acceptable as a primary
source of heat.
         (b)   DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO ALL ROOMS USED FOR LIVING means:
            1.   DIRECTLY means that each room used for living has a heat
source (e.g., working radiator; working hot air register; baseboard heat); and
            2.   INDIRECTLY means that, if there is not a heat source present
in the room, heat can enter the room easily from a heated adjacent room (e.g.,
a dining room may not have a radiator, but would receive heat from the heated
living room through a large open archway).
         (c)   If the heating system in the unit works, but there is some
question whether a room without a heat source would receive adequate indirect
heat, check “inconclusive” and verify adequacy from tenant or owner (e.g.,
unheated bedroom at the end of a long hallway).
         (d)   How to determine the capability of the heating system: if the
unit is occupied, usually the quickest way to determine the capability of the
heating system over time is to question the tenant. If the unit is not
occupied, or the tenant has not lived in the unit during the months when heat
would be needed, check “inconclusive”. It will be necessary to question the
owner on this point after the inspection has been completed and, if possible,
to question other tenants (if it is a multi-unit structure) about the adequacy
of heat provided. Under some circumstances, the adequacy of heat can be
determined by a simple comparison of the size of the heating system to the area
to be heated. For example, a small permanently installed space heater in a
living room is probably inadequate for heating anything larger than a
relatively small apartment.
      (2)   Safety of heating equipment.
         (a)   Examples of “invented fuel burning space heaters” are: portable
kerosene units; unvented open flame portable units.
         (b)   “Other unsafe conditions” include: breakage or damage to heating
system such that there is a potential for fire or other threats to safety;
improper connection of flues allowing exhaust gases to enter the living area;
improper installation of equipment (e.g., absence of safety devices);
indications of improper use of equipment (e.g., evidence of heavy build-up of
soot, creosote or other substance in the chimney); disintegrating equipment;
combustible materials near heat source or flue.
         (c)   If you are unable to gain access to the primary heating system
in the unit check “inconclusive”. Contact the owner or manager for verification
of safety of the system. If the system has passed a recent local inspection,
check “pass”. This applies especially to units in which heat is provided by a
large scale, complex central heating system that serves multiple units (e.g., a
boiler in the basement of a large apartment building). In most cases, a large
scale heating system for a multi-unit building will be subject to periodic
safety inspections by a local public agency. Check with the owner or manager to
determine the date and outcome of the last such inspection or look for an
inspection certificate posted on the heating system.
      (3)   Safety of heating source. Acceptable heating sources are city
supplied electric or natural gas connections. Gas shut off valves from approved
lines must be installed three feet from the heating source.
      (4)   Ventilation and adequacy of cooling.
         (a)   If the tenant is present and has occupied the unit during the
summer months, inquire about the adequacy of air flow. If the tenant is not
present or has not occupied the unit during the summer months, test a sample of
windows to see that they open. (See Inspection Manual for instruction.)
         (b)   WORKING COOLING EQUIPMENT includes central (fan) ventilation
system; evaporative cooling system; room or central air conditioning. Check
“inconclusive” if there are no windows that open and it is impossible, or
inappropriate, to test whether a cooling system works. Check with other tenants
in the building (in a multi-unit structure) and with the owner or manager for
verification of the adequacy of ventilation and cooling.
      (5)   Water heater.
         (a)   LOCATION PRESENTS HAZARD means that the gas or electric water
heater is located in living areas or closets where safety hazards may exist
(e.g., water heater located in a very cluttered closet with cloth and paper
items stacked against it). Gas water heaters in bedrooms or other living areas
must have safety dividers or shields.
         (b)   Water heaters must have a temperature-pressure relief valve and
discharge line (directed toward the floor or outside of the living area) as a
safeguard against build up of steam if the water heater malfunctions. If not,
they are not properly equipped and shall fail.
         (c)   To pass, gas or oil fired water heaters must be vented into a
properly installed chimney or flue leading outside. Electric water heaters do
not require venting.
         (d)   If it is impossible to view the water heater, check
“inconclusive”. Obtain verification of safety of system from owner or manager.
Check “pass” if the water heater has passed a local inspection. This applies
primarily to hot water that is supplied by a large scale complex water heating
system that serves multiple units (e.g., water heating system in a large
apartment building). Check in the same manner described for heating system
safety subsection (G)(2) above.
      (6)   Water supply. The structure must be properly connected to the city
water supply.
      (7)   Plumbing.
         (a)   MAJOR LEAKS means that the main water drain and feed pipes
(often located in the basement) are seriously leaking. (Leaks present at
specific facilities have already been evaluated under the checklist items for
“bathroom” and “kitchen”.)
         (b)   Corrosion (causing serious and persistent levels of rust or
contamination in the drinking water) can be determined by observing the color
of the drinking water at several taps. Badly corroded pipes will produce
noticeably brownish water. If the tenant is currently occupying the unit, he or
she should be able to provide information about the persistence of this
condition. (Make sure that the “rusty water” is not a temporary condition
caused by city of town maintenance of main water lines.) See general note under
subsection (G)(5) above.
      (8)   Sewer connection.
         (a)   The structure must be properly connected to the city sewer
system.
         (b)   The following conditions constitute “evidence of sewer back up”:
strong sewer gas smell in the basement or outside of unit; numerous clogged or
very slow drains; marshy areas outside of unit above septic field. See general
note under subsection (G)(5) above.
      (9)   Carbon monoxide detector.
         (a)   Carbon monoxide detectors should be hard wired (with a battery
back up) in sleeping rooms in the area from the floor to three feet above the
floor. A detector should also be placed within three feet of the gas furnace
and/or appliance.
         (b)   If the dwelling is occupied by any hearing-impaired person, the
detectors must have an alarm system designed for hearing-impaired persons.
      (10)   Electric hook-up. The structure must have a proper electric hook-
up with the city electric lines. Both the hook-up and the fuse box or service
box circuit panel must be free from hazards. (See subsection (A)(3) above.)
   (H)   General health and safety.
      (1)   Access to unit. THROUGH ANOTHER UNIT means that access to the unit
is only possible by means of passage through another dwelling unit.
      (2)   Exits. ACCEPTABLE FIRE EXIT means that the building must have an
alternative unobstructed means of exit leading to safe and open space at ground
level. In case of fire, this could include: an operable window if the unit is
on the first floor or second floor or easily accessible to the ground; a back
door opening on to a porch, with a stairway leading to the ground; fire escape,
fire ladder or fire stairs. If second story, have fire ladders, escapes or
stairs at both ends of the unit. BLOCKED means that the exit is not useable due
to conditions such as debris, storage, door or window nailed shut, broken lock.
      (3)   Evidence of infestation. Presence of rats, or severe infestation by
mice or vermin, (such as roaches) is evidenced by: rat holes; droppings; rat
runs; numerous settings of rat poison. If the unit is occupied, ask the tenant.
      (4)   Garbage and debris. HEAVY ACCUMULATION means large piles of trash
and garbage, discarded furniture and other debris (not temporarily stored
awaiting removal) that might harbor rodents. This may occur inside the unit, in
common areas or outside. It usually means a level of accumulation beyond the
capacity of an individual to pick up within an hour or two.
      (5)   Refuse disposal.
         (a)   ADEQUATE COVERED FACILITIES includes: trash cans with covers,
garbage chutes, “dumpsters” (i.e., large scale refuse boxes with lids); trash
bags (if approvable by local public agency). APPROVABLE BY LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY
means that the local Health and Sanitation Department (city, town or county)
approves the type of facility in use.
         (b)   If the unit is vacant and there are no adequate covered
facilities present, check “inconclusive”. Contact the owner or manager for
verification of facilities provided when the unit is occupied.
      (6)   Stairs and common halls. Loose, broken or missing steps should fail
if they present a serious risk of tripping or falling. A handrail is required
on extended sections of stairs (generally four or more consecutive steps). The
railing should be 34 to 38 inches above the nosing of the stair tread. A
railing is required on unprotected heights such as around stairwells in excess
of 30 inches. All interior and exterior stairways must have artificial
lighting. Each landing (six to eight steps) should have working light switches.
      (7)   Other interior hazards.
         (a)   “Other hazards” would be conditions such as bare electrical
wires, tripping hazards and visible molds.
         (b)   Examples of other hazards might be: a broken bathroom fixture
with a sharp edge in a location where it represents a hazard; a protruding nail
in a doorway.
      (8)   Elevators. Note: At the time of inspection, the inspector will
check the inspection date. If there is no elevator, check “not applicable”.
      (9)   Interior air quality. If the inspector has any questions about
whether an existing poor air quality condition should be considered dangerous,
he or she should check with the local Health and Safety Department (city, town
or country).
      (10)   Site and neighborhood conditions. Examples of conditions that
would “seriously and continuously endanger the health and safety of the
residents” are: other buildings on, or near the property that pose serious
hazards (e.g., dilapidated shed or garage with potential for structural
collapse), evidence of flooding or major drainage problems, evidence of mud
slides or large land settlement or collapse, proximity to open sewage,
unprotected heights (cliffs, quarries, mines, sandpits), fire hazards, abnormal
air pollution or smoke which continues throughout the year and is determined to
seriously endanger health and continuous or excessive vibration of vehicular
traffic (if the unit is occupied, ask the tenant).
   (I)   Space, use and location.
      (1)   Floor space. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square
feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof, and at least 100 additional
square feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof, the floor
space to be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
      (2)   Ceiling space. At least one half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet; and the
floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five
feet, shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total
area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
      (3)   Window area.
         (a)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room, shall be 10% of the floor area of such
room.
         (b)   Whenever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of
any room and such obstructions are located less than three feet from the window
and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included
as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever the only
window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such room, the total
window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor area
of such room.
      (4)   Cellar. No cellar space shall be used or considered as a habitable
room or dwelling unit.
      (5)   Habitable basement. No basement shall be used as a habitable room
or dwelling unit unless: the floor and walls are impervious to leakage of
underground and surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness; the
total of window area in each is equal to at least the minimum window area sizes
as required in subsection (I)(3) above; such required minimum window area is
located entirely above the grade of the ground adjoining such window area: and
the total of the operable window are in each room is equal to at least the
minimum, as required under subsection (I)(3) above, except where there is some
other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Building
Inspector; there are adequate exits as required by state and city laws and
regulations.
(2005 Code, § 9-803)
§ 9-806 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES COMPLAINT.
   (A)   A property owner, occupant of any premises or individual may file a
complaint with the city upon the proper forms as provided.
   (B)   After receiving such complaint:
      (1)   The Building Inspector may issue and cause to be served a complaint
charging that a dwelling is unfit or that any building is unsafe; if his or her
inspection discloses a basis for so charging, the complaint shall state: that a
hearing will be held before the Building Inspector (or his designated agent) at
a place therein fixed not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, after the
serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest may file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person and give testimony at the place
and time fixed in the complaint; and show cause why an order should not be
issued against the owner or building citing violations of this Rental Housing
Standard Code and further orders consistent with Rental Housing Standard Code
practices be issued to rectify the violations noted in the complaint: and that
the rules of evidence prevailing in the courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Building Inspector; and
      (2)   If after such notice and hearing, the Building Inspector determines
that the dwelling or dwelling unit under consideration is unfit for human
habitation or the building is dangerous, he or she shall state in writing, his
or her findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and
cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order to the intent and within the
time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the said dwelling or
other building to render it fit and safe; or, if the repair, alteration or
improvement can be made at a cost that is not more than 50% of the value of the
building, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the building; or, if
the repair cannot be made at a cost that is not more than 50% of the value of
the building, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
said dwelling or other building.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-807 SERVICE OF REPORTS, NOTICES, COMPLAINTS OR ORDERS.
   Reports, complaints or notices issued by the Building Inspector pursuant
hereto shall be served upon persons either personally, or by registered mail to
the last known address of the person or persons. If the whereabouts of any
person is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Building Inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Building Inspector or order
upon such person may be made by publishing the same once a week for two
successive weeks in the official newspaper of the city, service being deemed
complete upon the date of the last publication. A copy of such complaint or
order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the
complaint or order and shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of the
District Court of the county wherein the dwelling or building is located.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-808 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)    If the owner of a dwelling or other building fails to comply with the
order of the Building Inspector to repair, alter or improve, and/or vacate,
close, remove or demolish the dwelling, dwelling unit or building, the Building
Inspector may cause such dwelling, dwelling unit or building to be repaired,
altered or improved, and/or to be vacated, closed, removed or demolished. The
Building Inspector may cause to be posted on the main entrance, a placard with
the following words:
 
This building is unfit for human habitation or other use; the use or occupation of this building for human or other use
after                                               is unlawful and is prohibited.
 
   (B)   No person shall deface or remove the placard or other notice required
hereunder from any dwelling, dwelling unit or building. The Building Inspector
shall cause the placard to be removed whenever the defects upon which the
action for the placard was based have been corrected or removed.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alteration or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Building Inspector,
including the cost of advertising and publishing of notices, shall be the
personal debt and liability of the owner or owners, and shall be a lien against
the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Said cost shall be placed
upon the city’s tax books against the said property and may be collected, and
the said liens may be foreclosed, in the same manner as taxes and tax liens are
collected and foreclosed, or by other civil suit or process as the City
Attorney may determine. If the dwelling, dwelling unit or building is removed
or demolished by the Building Inspector, he or she shall, if possible, sell the
materials of such dwelling, dwelling unit or building and shall credit the
proceeds of such sale against the cost of removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the District Court by the Building
Inspector, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court,
and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order or decree of such courts.
   (D)   Failure on the part of any owner or party in interest to receive or
have served upon him or her any complaint, notice or order herein provided for,
shall not affect or invalidate the proceedings with respect to any other owner
or party in interest or any other person, firm or corporation.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-809 DUTIES OF LEGAL OFFICER.
   The City Attorney (and prosecuting attorney) shall, upon complaint of the
Building Inspector, or upon his or her own motion, institute appropriate action
to restrain, prevent, enjoin, abate, correct or remove such violation, and to
take such other legal action as is necessary to carry out the terms and
provisions of this article. The remedies provided for herein shall be
cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies
provided by law; any and all remedies may be pursued concurrently or
consecutively, and the pursuit of any remedy shall not be construed as the
waiver or the right to pursue any or all of the others.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-810 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person affected by an order which has been upheld in full or in part by
the Board of Appeals may, within 60 days after the posting and service of the
order, petition the district court for an injunction as provided by Neb. RS 25-
1062, or seek to have the order reviewed as may otherwise be provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-811 EMERGENCY ACTION WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health and/or welfare, he or
she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of
such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems
necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such
order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the
Building Inspector shall be afforded a hearing in the manner prescribed under
“complaint” of this article as soon as possible. After such hearing, depending
upon the findings as to whether the provisions of this article and of the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the Building
Inspector shall continue such order in effect, modify it or revoke it.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-812 BUILDING INSPECTOR; RESPONSIBILITY; POWERS AND DUTIES; APPEALS.
   (A)   The administration of this article shall be the responsibility of the
Building Inspector; he or she will work in close cooperation with the Fire
Chief, the county’s Health Department and other officials and agencies; he or
she may seek their written opinions concerning the conditions of dwellings or
other buildings.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Inspector is authorized to conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the community to determine compliance with this
article or other ordinance he or she is empowered to enforce.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall investigate all complaints which have
been submitted on the proper forms provided by the city, alleging or charging
that a violation of this article exists and/or that a building or dwelling is
unfit or unsafe for human habitation or other occupancy.
      (3)   For the purpose of making such surveys, inspections and
investigations, the Building Inspector is hereby authorized, upon
identification and statement of purpose, to enter, inspect, survey and
investigate if an emergency exists or if requested by the owner or occupant,
all buildings, dwellings, dwelling units and general premises. The owner or
occupant of every building, dwelling, dwelling units and general premises, or
the person in charge thereof, shall give the Building Inspector free access to
such building, dwelling, dwelling unit or general premises for the purpose of
such inspection, survey or investigation.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued and of other actions taken.
The records shall be available for public inspection. He or she shall prepare
an annual report including statistics based on the records kept.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
article has been wrongly interpreted or that the time allowed for compliance is
unreasonable, the owner, his or her agent or the occupant, as the case may be,
may file a notice of appeal from a decision or order of the Building Inspector.
Such notice shall be in writing and filed with the city within ten days after
the decision or order of the Building Inspector has been made.
      (2)   The Board, when so appealed to, may modify the decision or order of
the Building Inspector. Its decision shall be final, subject, however, to such
remedy as any aggrieved person may have at law or in equity. The Board’s
decision shall be in writing, shall be filed in the office of the Building
Inspector and a certified copy shall be given to the appellant.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-813 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The Building Inspector and his or her assistants shall be free from personal
liability for acts done in good faith in the performance of official duties.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-814 FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The Building Inspector or any one of his or her assistants shall not have a
financial interest in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, except where he or she
is the owner, and shall not act as an agent for real estate sales, leases or
rentals.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-815 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Building Appeals consisting of the
Mayor and eight members of the City Council.
   (B)   Six members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In varying the
application of any provisions of this code or in modifying an order of the
Building Inspector, affirmative votes of not less than six shall be required.
No Board member shall act in a case in which he or she has a personal interest.
The Board shall meet within 20 days after notice of appeal has been received.
The Board shall have the power to administer oaths, affirmations, examine
witnesses and receive evidence.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
§ 9-816 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of condition peculiar to a particular building, it would be
unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements of this code, a
variance may be granted by the Board upon written application therefor. Such
application shall state in writing the reasons why the variance shall be made.
A variance may be granted only where it is evident that reasonable safety and
sanitation is assured, and may include conditions not generally specified by
this article in order to achieve that end. The variance may include an
expiration date. A copy of the variance shall be filed in the office of the
Building Inspector and a copy shall be given to the applicant.
(2005 Code, § 9-804)
ARTICLE 9: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
9-901   Violation; penalty
§ 9-901 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular article or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the court.
(2005 Code, § 9-901)
ARTICLE 10: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
9-1001   Findings
   
9-1002   Purposes
   
9-1003   Definitions
   
9-1004   Applications
   
9-1005   Requirements
   
9-1006   Exemptions
   
9-1007   Additional requirements
   
9-1008   Applicability
§ 9-1001 FINDINGS.
   The City of Holdrege finds and declares that:
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
Nebraska communities, including a propensity to foster criminal activity,
create public health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in Nebraska
communities;
   (D)   A vacant property registration ordinance allows a municipality to
discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a data base
of vacant properties and their owners, and assess fees for the increased public
costs associated with vacant properties;
   (E)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration ordinance have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
   (F)   Enactment of this article is a proper exercise of governmental
authority to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of community
residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1002 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this article are to promote the health, safety, and welfare
of Holdrege residents by providing authority for enacting vacant property
registration requirements. This article will allow Holdrege to identify and
register vacant properties, collect fees to compensate for the public costs of
vacant properties, plan for the rehabilitation of vacant properties, and
encourage the occupancy of vacant properties.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building with more than 50% of its floor space used
for commercial activity. For purposes of this article, floor space shall be
designated as the area on the main or street level of the building.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential or commercial building is vacant. Such
conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Lack of active utility service accounts;
      (2)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (3)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash, or other
waste;
      (4)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (5)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property;
      (6)   The building is unsecured for 30 or more days, meaning that
persons, animals or the elements of weather, using little or no effort, may
access or enter the building, which is not actively being used as a dwelling or
business property, including without limitation, by way of any open, unlocked,
damaged, broken, weakened, compromised or missing doors, windows, or other
building components;
      (7)   The property has sustained significant fire, wind, water, or other
damage, is uninhabitable, and diligent, consistent efforts to repair,
rehabilitate, renovate, demolish, or remove the building are not evident within
60 days after the occurrence resulting in such damage;
      (8)   The property has been boarded up for a period of more than 60 days,
meaning that one or more of the building’s doors or windows, or door or window
openings, have been covered with plywood, wood or metal sheeting, paneling, or
other materials, other than permanently installed doors or windows, for the
purposes of preventing persons, animals, or the elements of weather from
entering into the building;
      (9)   The property has been declared a nuisance pursuant to applicable
Nebraska law or regulation or ordinances or regulations of the city, including
without limitation Neb. RS 18-1722 and Ch. 4 of this city code; and
      (10)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record in
the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building, or a trailer house.
   VACANT. A residential or commercial building exhibits evidence of vacancy as
described above in this section.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1004 APPLICATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts this article which applies to any type of residential
or commercial buildings, located within the corporate limits of the
municipality, except that this article shall not apply to property owned by the
federal government, the State of Nebraska, or any political subdivision
thereof. This article shall create a city-wide vacant property registration
database and clearly designate a program administrator, which shall be the city
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1005 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to a vacant property registration
ordinance shall be required to register such property with the program
administrator if the property has been vacant for180 days or longer. A vacant
property registration ordinance registration form shall be in either paper or
electronic form, and the following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (B)   This article requires payment of a fee 180 days after initial
registration of the vacant property pursuant to division (A) of this section or
360 days after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner, and requires
the payment of supplemental registration fees at intervals every six months
thereafter for as long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
      (1)   The initial registration fee shall be $250 for a property. Failure
to register within the prescribed timeframe given to the owner shall result in
the city placing the property on the registration list and the assessment of
unpaid fees as a lien against the property.
      (2)   A supplemental registration fee shall be double the previous fee
amount, with a maximum supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial
registration fee amount. Registration fees may be refundable for the year
preceding the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
      (3)   There is an exemption to the registration and fee requirements for
vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale or lease. Good faith
shall be defined as being advertised at a price no less than 125% of the
assessed value of the County Assessor and the owner must accept any bona fide
offer for that amount or more.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1006 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This article provides exemptions to the registration and fee
requirements, including, but not limited to, for vacant property:
      (1)   Only considered to be a seasonal residence;
      (2)   Damaged by fire, weather, an act of God, or vandalism;
      (3)   Under construction or renovation;
      (4)   Where the owner is temporarily absent, but who has demonstrated his
or her intent to return; and/or
      (5)   Which is subject to divorce, probate, or estate proceedings.
   (B)   Such exemptions may be granted upon the affirmative vote of three-
quarters of the City Council for a period up to, but not exceeding, one year.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1007 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to this article will
assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (B)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant.
   (C)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of the
property.
   (D)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the program administrator. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the registered owner at the address maintained in the County Register of Deeds’
office at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
   (E)   The program administrator or his or her designee may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
   (F)   This article may be enforced by municipal fines for failure to comply
with its requirements of $100 per day of violation.
   (G)   The municipality may enforce the collection of vacant property
registration fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of
this article shall become a lien on the applicable property upon the recording
of a notice of such lien in the office of the register of deeds of the county
in which the applicable property is located.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
§ 9-1008 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall be supplemental and in addition to any
other laws of the State of Nebraska relating to vacant property.
(Ord. 2462, passed - -)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   HAWKERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
3.   BINGO AND MECHANICAL AMUSEMENTS
      
4.   REGULATED BUSINESSES
      
5.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
6.   TELEPHONE COMPANIES
      
7.   NATURAL GAS COMPANIES
      
8.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
9.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
10-101   Definitions
   
10-102   License required
   
10-103   Location
   
10-104   Dwellings
   
10-105   License displayed
   
10-106   Licensee requirements
   
10-107   Municipal examination
   
10-108   Liquor license renewal
   
10-109   Municipal power and duties
   
10-110   Owner of premises
   
10-111   Employer
   
10-112   Minors and incompetents
   
10-113   Credit sales
   
10-114   Original package
   
10-115   Minor’s presence
   
10-116   Hours of sale
   
10-117   Sanitary conditions
   
10-118   Hiring minors
   
10-119   Consumption in public places
   
10-120   Acquisition of alcoholic beverages
   
10-121   Removal of intoxicated persons from public property
   
10-122   Liquor application; notice; procedure; retail licensing standards
Cross-reference:
   Occupation Taxes, see
Ch. 10, Art. 5
§ 10-101 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the state, being Neb. RS 53-
101 to 53-1,122.
(2005 Code, § 10-101)
§ 10-102 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122.
(2005 Code, § 10-102)
§ 10-103 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club or restaurant were
licensed and in operation prior to 5-24-1935. No alcoholic liquor, other than
beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet from the
campus of any college within the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 10-103)
§ 10-104 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(2005 Code, § 10-104)
§ 10-105 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to
53-1,122, shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain public
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(2005 Code, § 10-105)
§ 10-106 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premises is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony; a person who has never been associated with, or kept, a
house of ill fame; a person who has never been convicted of, or pleaded guilty
to, a crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality; a person who has
never had a liquor license revoked for cause; a person whose premises, for
which a license is sought, meet the standards for fire safety as established by
the state’s Fire Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a beneficial
interest in more than two alcoholic beverage retail establishments since 3-4-
1963; provided, the beneficial interest requirement in this section shall not
apply to a person applying for an additional license for use in connection with
the operation of a hotel containing at least 25 sleeping rooms, or where the
request is limited to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant.
(2005 Code, § 10-106)
§ 10-107 MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify by registered or certified mail the Municipal Clerk. The governing
body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and
report its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing
to the state’s Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of receipt from the
state’s Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may examine, or cause to
be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof
for its information in the performance of its duties. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired, the governing body may authorize its
agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf. The
governing body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing upon the
receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application. The
governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held, and
at which time the governing body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in, the municipality one time not less than seven, nor more than 14, days
before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited
to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the local
governing body in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license
may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than
21 days after the receipt of notice from the Commission. After such hearing,
the governing body shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of
its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail to the Commission by first
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice.
(2005 Code, § 10-107)
§ 10-108 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail liquor licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the governing body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. The Municipal
Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of
each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general
circulation in the municipality, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by
law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license
within the municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be
published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The Municipal
Clerk shall then file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice
on or before February 10 of each year or August 10 of each year for Class C
licenses. In the event that written protests are filed by three or more
residents of the municipality against said license renewal, the Municipal Clerk
shall deliver the protests to the governing body who shall thereupon proceed to
notify the Commission that they are to require the said licensee to submit an
application.
(2005 Code, § 10-108)
§ 10-109 MUNICIPAL POWER AND DUTIES.
   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not inconsistent
with the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to
53-1,122, the business of all retail and bottle club licenses carried on within
the corporate limits. The governing body shall further have the power and
duties with respect to licensed retailers of alcoholic beverages to revoke for
cause retail licenses to sell alcoholic liquors issued to persons for premises
within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to the state’s Liquor
Control Commission; to enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to
enter at any time upon any premises licensed by the state to determine whether
any of the provisions of the municipal laws or the laws of the state are being
violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens within its
jurisdiction that any of the municipal laws, or laws of the state, are being
violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner herein provided; to
revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same notice and hearing as
provided in §
10-122 of this article, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122,
or any valid and subsisting ordinance or regulations duly enacted relating to
alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the benefit of the state and the
municipality all license fees and occupation taxes as prescribed by law.
(2005 Code, § 10-109)
§ 10-110 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or state statute.
(2005 Code, § 10-110)
§ 10-111 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(2005 Code, § 10-111)
§ 10-112 MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of any alcoholic liquors to or
for any minor, or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(2005 Code, § 10-112)
§ 10-113 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and,
provided further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or
restaurant holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks
or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(2005 Code, § 10-113)
§ 10-114 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in his,
her or their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in
bottles, casks or other containers, except in the original package.
(2005 Code, § 10-115)
§ 10-115 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(2005 Code, § 10-116)
§ 10-116 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to
sell any alcoholic beverage within the municipality except during the hours
provided herein:
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold at retail or dispensed on any day
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, “on sale” shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; “off sale” shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at
retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of the
licensed establishment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any licensed
premises from being open for other business during hours which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(2005 Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 2412, passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 2440, passed 9-15-2020)
§ 10-117 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Toilet facilities shall be adequate and convenient for customers and
patrons and said licensed premises shall be subject to any health inspections
the governing body or the municipal police may make or cause to be made.
   (C)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions and a report concerning the said sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for, or
renewal of, a liquor license.
(2005 Code, § 10-118)
§ 10-118 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(2005 Code, § 10-119)
§ 10-119 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages
within the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic
beverages within any other public business that is not a licensed liquor
establishment.
(2005 Code, § 10-120)
§ 10-120 ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122; providing, nothing herein shall
prevent the possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor, his or her family and guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider
or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the
product thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made
solely for the use of the maker, his or her family and his or her guests;
provided further that, nothing herein shall prevent any duly licensed
practicing physician or dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in
the strict practice of his or her profession, or any hospital or institution
caring for the sick and diseased persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor
for the treatment of bona fide patients of such hospital or other institution;
provided further that, any drug store employing a licensed pharmacist may
possess and use alcoholic liquors in the compounding of prescriptions of duly
licensed physicians; and, provided further that, the possession and
dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any church for the
purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony conducted by
such church shall not be prohibited by this section; provided further that,
persons who are 16 years old or older may carry beer from grocery stores when
they are accompanied by a person not a minor, persons who are 16 years old or
older may handle beer containers and beer in the course of their employment in
grocery stores, and persons who are 16 years old or older may remove and
dispose of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of their employer
and customers in the course of their employment as waiters, waitresses or
busboys, by any restaurant, club, hotel or similar organization; and, provided
further that, persons who are 19 years old or older may serve or sell alcoholic
liquor in the course of their employment.
(2005 Code, § 10-121)
§ 10-121 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public property. An officer removing an intoxicated
person from public property shall make a reasonable effort to take such
intoxicated person to his or her home or to any hospital, clinic, alcoholism
center or medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. If these measures are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may
then place such intoxicated person in civil protective custody; except that,
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 12 hours. The
placement of such person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the
facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her
family or next of kin, if he or she can be located, or to such person
designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state-, county- or
municipally-owned property.
(2005 Code, § 10-122)
§ 10-122 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134
shall be given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the
date, time and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are
legally or factually related may be heard and considered together unless any
party thereto makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that
prejudice would result therefrom.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City Attorney
and/or Deputy City Attorney. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an
adversarial action. Each witness may present his or her testimony in narrative
fashion or by question and answer.
         (b)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
         (c)   The governing body and its representatives shall not be bound by
the strict rules of evidence and shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence. The governing body may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it
appears incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition
to any application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present
arguments and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, he or she shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation prior to the
start of the hearing.
         (d)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
            1.   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented
to the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
            2.   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by
applicant;
            3.   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
            4.   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by City
Attorney, City Administrator, governing body or duly appointed agent;
            5.   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
            6.   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
            7.   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
            8.   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
            9.   Cross-examination by applicant;
            10.   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by municipality
administration and agent; and
            11.   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
         (e)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
         (f)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
         (g)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
         (h)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(2005 Code, § 10-123)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to
the state’s Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122:
         (a)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services
in the area;
         (b)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
         (c)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the
vicinity of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking
problems and the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street
parking;
         (d)   Zoning restrictions and the municipality’s zoning and land-use
policies;
         (e)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed
licensed premises;
         (f)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and any other evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
         (g)   The existing population, and projected growth, both
municipality-wide and within the area to be served;
         (h)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license and the
distance and times of travel to such licenses;
         (i)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth;
         (j)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the
public interest;
         (k)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS.
53-102 of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122;
         (l)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic beverages, which must be
displayed, kept and sold from an area which is secured to the greatest extent
possible;
         (m)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly
provide the service proposed in conformance with all provisions, requirements,
needs and regulations provided for in the state’s Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122;
         (n)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of
management and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient
to ensure that the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements,
rules and regulations provided for in the state’s Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122;
         (o)   The background information of the applicants established by
information contained in the public records of the state’s Liquor Control
Commission and investigations conducted by the Police Department;
         (p)   Past instances of discrimination involving the applicant(s) as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
municipality or any other governmental board or agency of the municipality or
any other governmental unit or any court of law;
         (q)   Past compliance with state laws and liquor regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations;
         (r)   If the application is for an on-sale license, whether it is
adjunct to a legitimate food service operation as evidenced by percent of gross
income allocated to food and liquor and the type and extent of kitchen
facilities;
         (s)   Whether the applicant or its representatives has suppressed any
fact or provided any non-factual information to the local governing body or its
employees in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The
applicant is required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the municipality;
         (t)   Whether the application will provide an improvement to the
neighborhood, a betterment to the municipality or a true increase in service to
the public at large;
         (u)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries and
public institutions;
         (v)   Whether the type of entertainment to be offered, if any, will be
appropriate and non- disruptive to the neighborhood where the premises are
located and to the community at large;
         (w)   Whether the application is for a business, and the sole purpose
for which is the sale of dispensing of liquor, or when the sale or dispensing
of liquor is a substantial integral part of the business, and not just
incidental thereto;
         (x)   Applications for Class B, C and D licenses (as defined by Neb.
RS 53-124) must be for premises which are separate and distinct from any other
business activity. Premises shall be deemed separate and distinct only when
located in a building which is not adjacent to any other building, or when
located within the same building, they shall be so separate by walls (floor to
ceiling), that access cannot be had directly from the area of alcoholic liquor
sales to any other business activity by mean of doors or other openings;
provided, nothing herein shall prevent the construction or maintenance of doors
that are used by employees; further, any non-conforming premises in existence
on the effective date of this article may be continued for the life of the
license. Such non-conforming premises may not be enlarged, extended or restored
after damage during interim. For the purposes of this section, OTHER BUSINESS
ACTIVITY shall mean the sale or display of any food, produce, mercantile
product, item or service other than keeping or selling of alcoholic liquors at
retail for consumption off the premises and the sale or display of ice, drink
mix, tobacco, cups or carbonated beverages;
         (y)   Whether or not applicant has ever forfeited bond to appear in
court to answer charges of having committed a felony, or charges of having
violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good morals and
decency, or has been convicted of violating of forfeiting bond to appear in
court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating to
alcoholic liquors;
         (z)   The City Council may fix certain requirements and prescribe
certain conditions upon a license when it is granted or permitted to continue
in full force and effect whether such requirements or conditions are imposed at
a formal hearing, by a written notice, or in a written stipulation, and such
requirements or conditions shall be deemed to be a part of the license as
though fully endorsed therein; and any violation or breach of any requirement
or condition is prohibited; and
         (aa)   Other information and data that may reasonably be considered
pertinent to the issuance of the license.
      (2)   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can
be computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term “applicants”, as used herein, is synonymous with “license”.
(2005 Code, § 10-124)
ARTICLE 2: HAWKERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
10-201   Definitions
   
10-202   Permits required
   
10-203   Permit application
   
10-204   Hours
   
10-205   Exceptions
§ 10-201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. An individual who actually makes contact, directly
or indirectly, by phone, by mail, in person or otherwise with any potential
donor with the intent of soliciting.
   HAWKER or PEDDLER. Any individual who as the primary mode of conducting
business travels either by foot, automobile, motor truck, vehicle or other type
of conveyance, from house to house, from residence to residence or from
dwelling to dwelling, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods,
wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future
delivery; seeking donations; or taking or attempting to take orders for
services to be performed in the future. It shall be immaterial whether or not
such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of
such sale, or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales. Such
definition shall apply to such individual described herein whether or not such
individual, who for himself or herself or for any other individual, firm,
partnership or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, tent, hotel room, motel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER or HAWKER. Any individual traveling by foot, automobile, vehicle or
any other type of conveyance, from residence to residence, from house to house
or from dwelling to dwelling, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, magazines, books or other products or provisions, offering and
exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or any individual not traveling from house to house, from residence
to residence or from dwelling to dwelling, who shall sell or offer the same for
sale from an automobile, vehicle, truck or other vehicle or conveyance.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION. The request, directly or indirectly, for money,
donations of money, property or financial assistance of any kind and shall
include the sale or offer for sale of any article, tag, service emblem,
publication, ticket, advertisement, subscription or anything of value on the
direct or implied plea or representation that such sale or solicitation or the
proceeds thereof is for a charitable, benevolent, civic, educational,
religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose. A SOLICITATION shall be deemed
completed when made, whether or not the person making the same receives any
contribution or makes any sale as referred to herein.
   SOLICITING ORGANIZATION. Any individual person, group, corporation,
association, partnership or individual engaged in a solicitation.
(2005 Code, § 10-201)
§ 10-202 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any canvasser, solicitor, peddler or hawker,
directly or indirectly to sell, attempt to sell, solicit or make solicitations
on the streets, in any office or business building, by house to house canvass,
or in any other private or public place by telephone, personal solicitation or
in any other way in the city unless such person, organization, society,
association or corporation shall have first obtained a permit as provided
hereafter.
(2005 Code, § 10-202)
§ 10-203 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit as required by §
10-202 of this article shall be sworn to and filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of organization applying for a license to solicit or sell and
the address of its headquarters;
      (2)   Names and addresses of its principal officers and management;
      (3)   The purpose for which any solicitation is to be made and the use or
disposition to be made of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   The name of the person or persons by whom the receipts of any
solicitation shall be disbursed;
      (5)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation or sales, and the name and address of the
registered agent and registered office of the soliciting or selling
organization;
      (6)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitations or sales;
      (7)   The time when such solicitations or sales shall be made, giving the
preferred dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitation or sale;
      (8)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city; and
      (9)   In the case of a soliciting organization, a full statement of the
character and extent of the charitable, educational, religious, civic,
benevolent or philanthropic work being done by the applicant organization
within the city and a statement of the percentage of the funds to be collected
to be applied to such purposes in the city.
   (C)   (1)   Upon furnishing the information required in the permit
application, the payment of the $5 permit fee, and payment of any occupation
tax required by
Ch. 10, Art. 5, of this code of ordinances, the City Clerk shall then issue a
permit to such applicant.
      (2)   A permit requiring a bond shall only be issued for the term of the
bond and in any event for a term no longer than one year from the date of
issuance.
(2005 Code, § 10-203)
§ 10-204 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to make calls as a solicitor, canvasser, hawker or
peddler to prospective customers before 8:00 a.m. or after sunset, any day,
unless requested to do so by the prospective customer.
(2005 Code, § 10-204)
§ 10-205 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This article shall not apply to any established society, labor union,
church, association or corporation that is organized and operated exclusively
for religious, philanthropic, benevolent, fraternal, charitable or reformatory
purposes, not operated for pecuniary profit, when no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any person, private shareholder or
individual, and where such solicitation may be in the form of collections or
contributions at the regular exercises or services of any church, religious
society, lodge, benevolent order or fraternity or similar organization, or of
any branch thereof.
   (B)   No permit will be required for qualified representatives of any
church, having an established congregation and conducting regular services, in
the city. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to verify that the
congregation is actually established in the city.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons
selling produce raised within the county, or to wholesale sales
representatives, or route salespersons soliciting merchants directly.
(2005 Code, § 10-205)
ARTICLE 3: BINGO AND MECHANICAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
10-301   Carnivals; circus
§ 10-301 CARNIVALS; CIRCUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, partnership, corporation or
organization to conduct, manage, sponsor or promote any carnival, circus,
amusement park rides or similar activity without first obtaining a license from
the city. Application shall be made to the City Clerk and shall contain all
information and documents which the governing body may deem necessary to
determine whether to grant or reject said application. Each applicant shall
also be required to post a security bond in an amount set by resolution of the
governing body, or give sufficient proof that said applicant is currently
covered by an equal amount of liability insurance, to adequately protect the
interests of the city and its citizens. Upon the determination that it would be
proper to grant such application, the governing body shall immediately direct
the City Clerk to issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of
the appropriate fee. Any license so granted shall be subject to revocation by
the governing body for good cause after proper notice has been served and the
licensee has been allowed a hearing. In no event shall this section be
applicable to governmental entities.
(2005 Code, § 10-310)
ARTICLE 4: REGULATED BUSINESSES
Section
   
10-401   Fireworks vendors
   
10-402   Firearms and ammunition vendors; inspection of records
§ 10-401 FIREWORKS VENDORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except fireworks allowed by the state under current
state statute. Lawful fireworks may be sold and/or discharged only from 8:00
a.m. until 11:00 p.m. June 28 through July 2 and from 8:00 a.m. until midnight
on July 3 and July 4; provided that, fireworks of any description are
permissible for purposes of public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the
governing body; and further provided that all fireworks vendors shall secure a
fireworks vendors permit from the city prior to any sale of fireworks.
Applications for such license shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk upon
forms supplied by the municipality.
(2005 Code, § 10-405) (Ord. 2383, passed 8-16-2016)
§ 10-402 FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION VENDORS; INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   To aid in the protection, safety and general welfare of the city, the
municipal police shall have the power and authority to inspect and copy the
records of firearms and ammunition vendors, relating to the sale and/or
registration of firearms and ammunition.
(2005 Code, § 10-406)
ARTICLE 5: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
10-501   Amounts
   
10-502   Collection date
   
10-503   Certificates
   
10-504   Failure to pay
   10-505   Hotel occupation tax
§ 10-501 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
Manufacturer of spirits and alcoholic liquor                           $2,000
Manufacturer of beer                                                   $900
Manufacturer of wine                                                   $500
Distributor of alcoholic liquors                                       $1,000
Distributor of beer only                                               $500
Class A: Retailer of beer only, consumed on the premises               $100
Class B: Retailer of beer only in original package for consumption off $50
premises
Class C: Retailer of alcoholic liquors for consumption on and off the  $250
premises, sales in original package
Class D: Retailer of alcoholic liquor, including beer, consumption off $250
premises, sales in original package
Class I: Retailer of alcoholic liquor consumed on the premises         $250
Class LK: Brew pub/caterer (license fee collected by Nebraska Liquor   $100
Control Commission)
Class W: Wholesale beer (license fee collected by Nebraska Liquor      $250
Control Commission)
Class X: Wholesale liquor (license fee collected by Nebraska Liquor    $500
Control Commission)
Class Y: Farm winery (license fee collected by Nebraska Liquor Control $250
Commission)
SDL: Special designated liquor license                                 $25
 
(2005 Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 2411, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 10-502 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk shall give a
receipt, properly dated and specifying the person paying the said tax and the
amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms, and
receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be
kept by each party in the transaction.
(2005 Code, § 10-502)
§ 10-503 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
(2005 Code, § 10-503)
§ 10-504 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(2005 Code, § 10-504)
§ 10-505 HOTEL OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Hotel accommodations. Each person, partnership, firm, association or
organization of any kind or character engaged in the business of operating a
hotel in the City of Holdrege shall pay an occupation tax in the amount of 5%
of the total consideration charged for occupancy per occupied room per night.
   (B)   Hotel defined. “Hotel” shall mean any facility in which the public
may, for a consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations in any space
ordinarily used for such lodging. The term shall include hotels, motels,
tourist hotels, campgrounds, courts, lodging houses, inns, bed and breakfasts,
Airbnbs and nonprofit hotels; however, “hotel” shall not be defined so as to
include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, chronic care centers,
dormitories or other facilities operated by an educational institution and
regularly used to house students.
   (C)   Occupied room, defined; exceptions.
      (1)   “Occupied room” shall mean any space ordinarily used for sleeping
accommodations and for which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the
use or possession, or the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed
30 continuous days. The term shall include camping space, trailer space or
recreational vehicle space. The term does not include a function room such as a
ballroom, banquet room, reception room, or meeting room, provided it is not
used as temporary sleeping accommodations.
      (2)   “Occupied room” shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this section
shall be measured by or collected for:
         (a)   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
         (b)   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by a
person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act
of 1967, as it is amended from time to time; or
         (c)   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
   (D)   Collection. The tax imposed by this section shall be collected by the
hotel operator from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The tax
may be shown as an add-on to the charge for occupancy of the rooms and shall be
collectible at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when the charge
for the occupancy is paid. The operator shall remain responsible for payment of
all taxes imposed whether or not the taxes are actually collected from the
guests.
   (E)   Records. It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this
section to fail to maintain or fail to make available to the city, upon 72
hours’ notice, written records accurately and completely evidencing the number
of rooms occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupation
tax due or paid under this section. Such records shall be maintained for a
period of three years after the occupation tax is due.
   (F)   Due date. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the
tax imposed by this section of the Holdrege Municipal Code shall be due and
payable on the first day of each calendar month next succeeding the month
during which the room was occupied. All taxes not paid by the 25th day of the
month in which they are due and payable shall be deemed to be delinquent. The
operator shall be assessed a penalty of 10% on all delinquent amounts as well
as interest of 1% per month or fraction thereof from the first of the month in
which such tax becomes due and payable until the date of payment.
   (G)   Intent. It is the intent of this section that revenue generated by the
hotel occupation tax imposed by this section will accrue to the city’s General
Fund and be appropriated annually by the City Council to support any purpose or
purposes of their choosing as provided in Neb. RS 13-315.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person, partnership, firm, association or organization
violating any of the provisions of this section of the Holdrege Municipal Code
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
in accordance with §
1-1201 of the Holdrege Municipal Code. Each distinct act or violation of the
terms of this section shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2437, passed 6-16-2020)
ARTICLE 6: TELEPHONE COMPANIES
Section
   
10-601   Imposed; rate; exception
   
10-602   Schedule of payments
   
10-603   Payment to City Treasurer; receipt for payment
   
10-604   Interest and penalty for delinquent taxes
   
10-605   Statement of gross receipts
   
10-606   Adjustment of payment
   
10-607   Inspection of books and records
   
10-608   Computation upon failure to file statement and the like
   
10-609   Civil action to recover tax
§ 10-601 IMPOSED; RATE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All telephone companies doing business in the city are required to pay
an occupation tax to the city in an amount equal to 3% of the gross receipts
from the legally established basic monthly charges collected for telephone
service to subscribers within the city.
   (B)   There shall be excepted from the provisions of this article receipts
for telephone service to the United States government or any of its
departments, and receipts from the state or any of its departments, and no part
or portion of the tax provided for in this article shall be levied upon or
assessed against or taken from the United States government, the government of
the state or any of either of their departments.
(2005 Code, § 10-601)
§ 10-602 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this article
shall be in quarterly payments, using the calendar quarter year as a basis for
determining and computing the amount of tax payable.
   (B)   Each quarterly payment shall be due 45 days after the termination of
each calendar quarter year.
(2005 Code, § 10-602)
§ 10-603 PAYMENT TO CITY TREASURER; RECEIPT FOR PAYMENT.
   The occupation tax levied pursuant to this article shall be paid to the City
Treasurer for the benefit of the General Fund of said city at the time provided
by this article, and he or she shall issue and deliver his or her receipt
therefor upon the payment thereof and the amount of payment shall be credited
by the City Treasurer to the General Fund.
(2005 Code, § 10-603)
§ 10-604 INTEREST AND PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   All payments of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this article which are
made after the due date thereof shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month
and, after payment thereof has been in default for six months, a penalty of 5%
shall be added thereto in addition to such interest charges, which shall be
paid by any company subject to this occupation tax.
(2005 Code, § 10-604)
§ 10-605 STATEMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   All telephone companies shall, at the time they make their quarterly
payments of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this article, file with the
City Treasurer a full, complete and detailed statement of the gross receipts
subject to such occupation tax, which statement shall be duly verified and
sworn to by the manager in charge of the business of the particular company in
the city or by a higher managerial employee of such company.
(2005 Code, § 10-605)
§ 10-606 ADJUSTMENT OF PAYMENT.
   Each succeeding quarterly payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to
this article may include any adjustment which is shown on the report provided
for by §
10-605 of this article, which may be necessary for the consideration of
uncollectibles or any other matters which may have resulted in either an excess
or a deficiency in the amount of tax paid in any previous quarter.
(2005 Code, § 10-606)
§ 10-607 INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The city shall have the right at any time to inspect, through its officers,
agents or representatives, the books and records of any telephone company, for
the purpose of verifying any report submitted pursuant to the requirements of §
10-605 of this article.
(2005 Code, § 10-607)
§ 10-608 COMPUTATION UPON FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT AND THE LIKE.
   In case any telephone company shall refuse, fail or neglect to furnish or
file any report required in §
10-605 of this article at the time required for such filing, or shall fail or
refuse to permit the city to inspect the books and records of such company for
the purpose of verifying such report, then the occupation tax for the preceding
quarter shall be the sum of $5,000, and such amount shall be paid within 45
days following the end of the calendar quarter as required by §
10-605 of this article and such amount shall draw interest and be subject to
penalties as provided by §
10-604 of this article.
(2005 Code, § 10-608)
§ 10-609 CIVIL ACTION TO RECOVER TAX.
   When any telephone company shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax
provided for by this article at the time specified for such payment, the city
shall have the right to sue any such company in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of such occupation tax due and payable under the
terms and provisions of this article and may recover judgment against any such
company for such amount so due, together with interest and penalties, and may
have execution thereon.
(2005 Code, § 10-609)
ARTICLE 7: NATURAL GAS COMPANIES
Section
   
10-701   Filing fee
§ 10-701 FILING FEE.
   The municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas
companies for a rate filing. The fee shall be $1,000.
(2005 Code, § 10-701)
ARTICLE 8: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
   
10-801   Purpose and intent
   
10-802   Findings
   
10-803   Definitions
   
10-804   Classification of businesses
   
10-805   License required; application for license
   
10-806   Investigation of application
   
10-807   License issuance and display
   
10-808   License fee
   
10-809   Inspections
   
10-810   License term and renewal
   
10-811   License suspension
   
10-812   License revocation
   
10-813   Transfer of license
   
10-814   Location of sexually oriented business
   
10-815   Non-conforming uses
   
10-816   Films or videos
   
10-817   Additional regulations concerning public nudity or semi-nudity
   
10-818   Additional regulations concerning alcohol
   
10-819   Prohibition of children in a sexually oriented business
   
10-820   Hours of operation
   
10-821   Display of sexually oriented materials to minors
§ 10-801 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within
the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or sexual activities.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-802 FINDINGS.
   Based on convincing documented evidence, studies, findings and reports
concerning the negative secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses
regarding both commercial and residential areas and the nexus between sexually
oriented businesses, obscene materials and sexual exhibits and alcohol
consumption, and illegal drug distribution and use, the City Council finds:
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses have negative secondary effects on the
existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas adjacent
to them, causing increased crime, the downgrading of property values, the
downgrading of adjacent neighborhoods making adjacent neighborhoods
significantly less attractive and less safe for raising children and
denigrating both residential life and commercial activity for other types of
businesses and sexually oriented businesses downgrade the quality of life and
fitness of property for other uses in areas both immediate and adjacent to such
businesses.
   (B)   The negative secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses are
increased when they are located in close proximity to each other and when the
service or consumption of alcohol is permitted at or near such locations.
   (C)   Improper conduct involving sexual acts occurs at sexually oriented
businesses which provide private or semi-private booths or viewing rooms for
the viewing of films, videos or live performances.
   (D)   The findings noted above raise substantial governmental concerns for
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city and it is
appropriate for the purpose of promoting and protecting the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city particularly the children of the community
and those conducting general business that reasonable regulations be enacted so
as to address the substantial governmental concerns to minimize and control the
negative secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and thereby promote
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, protect
the citizens from increased crime, preserve the value of property, and preserve
the quality of life and the quality and character of surrounding neighborhoods
for residential and commercial purposes.
   (E)   The enactment of reasonable regulations of sexually oriented
businesses which involve location criteria, licensing criteria, operational
criteria, and the prohibition of alcohol and illegal substance use are
appropriate to address the substantial governmental concerns and protect. the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (F)   A reasonable licensing procedure and zoning requirements are
appropriate mechanisms to place the burden of reasonable regulations on the
owners of sexually oriented businesses and such a licensing procedure will
place an incentive on the owners to see that the sexually oriented business is
operated in a manner which is consistent with the health, safety and welfare of
patrons, employees and citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-803 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
and/or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE OR ADULT NOVELTY STORE. A commercial
establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
for sale or rental, for any form of consideration, any one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, video reproductions,
slides, laser or compact discs, or other visual representations which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
      (3)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental or material
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” and still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or
adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” or if the business advertises the sale or rental of any such
material in a way that can be seen or heard from the outside of the location.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features any of the following:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity.
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, laser or compact discs, or other visual representations which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which does
any of the following:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, compact discs or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and has a sign
visible from the public right of way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions.
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours.
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
or where the principal subject of depiction or description is “specified sexual
activities” and/or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE, EMPLOY AND EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-
time, part-time or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated as an employee, independent contractor, agent, or by another
status. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business.
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business to a sexually oriented
business or from one type of sexually oriented business to another type or
types of sexually oriented business.
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued but also includes the individual listed as an
applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A commercial establishment which regularly features a
person who appears in a state of nudity and is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, or photographed by other persons who pay
money or any form of consideration. NUDE MODEL STUDIO shall not include a
proprietary school licensed by the State of Nebraska; or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; or a
private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs
in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   NUDE, NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY. The showing or depiction of the human,
post-pubertal male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a
full opaque covering, the showing or depiction of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, or the showing or depiction of the female breast with
less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the
areolae of the nipple. This definition shall include the entire portion of the
human female breast below the top of the areolae of the nipple, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other clothing.
   OPERATE OR CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. OPERATOR means any person on the premises of a
sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise operational control of
the business, or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation, the
business. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business regardless of whether or not that person is an
owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company or partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL. A single family, two family, or multiple family use as defined
in ordinances of the City of Holdrege.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and the female breast below the top of the areolae of
the nipple, with other portions of the body covered  by supporting straps,
material or devices. This definition shall include the entire portion of the
human female breast below the top of the areolae of the nipple, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or bathing suit or other clothing.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that offers for
any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex.
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
novelty store or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, semi-nude model studio or sexual
encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human, post-pubertal male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, the
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely
covered, or the female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any
portion thereof below the top of the areolae of the nipple.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks or female breasts whether clothed or unclothed; or
      (2)   Acts whether actual or simulated, of human sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in (1) through (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor area occupied by the business
by more than 25%, as the floor area exists on the date this chapter takes
effect or on the date of the issuance of a sexually oriented business license.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business; or
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-804 CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcade;
   (B)   Adult bookstore, adult video store or adult novelty store;
   (C)   Adult cabaret;.
   (D)   Adult motel;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (F)   Adult theater;
   (G)   Escort agency;
   (H)   Nude model studio; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter center.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-805 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to operate, a sexually
oriented business without a valid license issued by the city for the particular
type of classification of business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made to the Chief of Police on a
form provided by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The applicant must meet all qualifications stated in this chapter
before a license is issued and continuously thereafter during the license term.
The application shall require and the applicant shall provide such information
and documentation as is specified in this chapter.
   (D)   lf a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner, managing partner or other
person who will participate directly in decisions relating to management of the
business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must meet the qualifications as stated in this chapter and each applicant shall
be considered as a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   lf the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 21 or more years of age;
         (b)   A partnership or limited liability company, the partnership or
limited liability company shall state its complete name, and the names of ail
partners or members, residence address and whether the partnership or company
is general or limited, a copy of the partnership, LLC/LLP organizational
agreement, if any, and verification of current state registration, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the name, capacity and
address of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of
the registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for
service of process.
      (2)   Name of business. If the applicant intends to operate the sexually
oriented business under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must
state the sexually oriented business's name and submit any registration
documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a crime as specified in
division (A)(7)(a) of §
10-807, and, if so, the crime, date, place and jurisdiction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license or holds a present
license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business
ordinances from another city or county and whether any license has been denied,
suspended or revoked in this or any other jurisdiction, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant has been a partner or member in a
partnership or limited liability company or an officer, director, or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter or in another
jurisdiction or whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
license was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial,
suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or operates other similar sexually oriented businesses in another city or
county and, if so, the names and locations of such other businesses.
      (6)   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and state or Federal issued tax identification number.
      (10)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
   (F)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates a sexually
oriented business without a valid license issued by the city for that
particular classification of business.
   (G)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law and this chapter by the City of Holdrege Inspector and Holdrege Police
Department.
   (H)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county
licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business license.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-806 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business
license, the Chief of Police or designee shall conduct an investigation of the
applicant and application including a location inspection and shall issue an
investigation report.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or designee shall forward a copy of the
application and investigation report to the Building Inspector and the Building
Inspector shall inspect the location.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-807 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   The City Inspector shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless he or she finds
one or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is not then 21 or more years of age.
      (2)   An applicant is currently required to register pursuant to the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act.
      (3)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the city or county of fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him
or her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
      (4)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license including all information requested on the
application form or has falsely answered a question or request for information
on the application form.
      (5)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business is not
in compliance with state or local building codes, rules and regulations.
      (6)   The investigation, inspection and license fees required by this
chapter have not been paid.
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime:
         (a)   Involving:
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in Nebraska State
Statutes:
               A.   Prostitution;
               B.   Pandering;
               C.   Keeping a place of prostitution;
               D.   Debauching a minor;
               E.   Obscenity;
               F.   Contributing to the delinquency of a child;
               G.   Child pornography;
               H.   Possession, distribution or sale of child pornography;
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in Nebraska State
Statutes:
               A.   Incest;
               B.   Public indecency;
               C.   Allowing a child to participate in child pornography;
            3.   Sexual assault or sexual assault of a child as described in
Nebraska State Statutes;
            4.   Solicitation of a child, or harboring a runaway child as
described in Nebraska State Statutes; or
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses;
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, or the date of
release from probation or parole, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release
from confinement for the conviction, or the date of release from probation or
parole, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, or
the date of release from probation or parole, whichever is the later date, if
the convictions are of two or more misdemeanors of the offenses listed division
(A)(7)(a) of §
10-807.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed has no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed in division
(A)(7)(a) above may qualify for a sexually oriented business license only when
the time period required by division (A)(7)(b) has elapsed and all fines
reference the criminal offenses have been fully paid.
   (D)   The City Inspector, upon approving the issuance of a sexually oriented
business license, shall cause to be sent to the applicant, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, written notice of that action and that the applicant
must pay the investigation/inspection and license fees at the Office of the
City Inspector at the City Administration Building. The City Inspector's
approval of the issuance of a license does not authorize the applicant to
operate a sexually oriented business until the applicant has paid all fees
required by this chapter and has obtained possession of the license. The City
Inspector, upon denial of the issuance of sexually oriented business license,
shall cause to be sent to the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notice of that action and the applicant can appeal such
decision to the City Council, in writing filed with the City Clerk, within 30
days of the date of denial. City Council will hear the appeal within 30 days
from the date the written appeal is received. After hearing, Council will
affirm or reverse the decision of the City Inspector within 30 days after
conclusion of the hearing. The hearing will be informal and rules of evidence
do not apply. The applicant has the right to be represented. In case of
reversal, the license shall issue.
   (E)   The license, if granted, must state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued. The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any
time.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification and the applicant can operate a business for only one licensed
location in the city.
   (G)   The Police Department, Fire Department, and the City Inspector shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the Police Chief.
The certifications of the Police Department and Fire Department shall be
promptly presented to the City Inspector.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-808 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a sexually oriented business is $500.
   (B)   In addition to the annual license fee to be paid to the City Inspector
at license issue required by division (A) of this section, an applicant for an
initial sexually oriented business license shall, at the time of making
application, pay a non-refundable investigation fee of $500 for the city to
conduct an investigation of the application and for the city also to conduct
inspections of the location to insure that the proposed sexually oriented
business is in compliance with the location and other restrictions set forth in
§
10-814.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-809 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An applicant, licensee, operator or employee shall permit
representatives of the City of Holdrege Police Department, Fire Department,
City Inspector, and any other state, county or city agency in the performance
of any function connected with the enforcement of this chapter or other
applicable laws, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business, for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   (B)   An applicant, licensee or operator of a sexually oriented business or
his or her agent or employee commits a misdemeanor offense if he refuses to
permit an inspection of the premises by a representative of an agency
designated in division (A) of this section at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-810 LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in this chapter. Application
for renewal should be made at least 45 days before the expiration date, and
when made less than 45 days before the expiration date, the expiration of tire
license will not be affected.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business license may be renewed only by making
application as provided in §
10-805. Application for renewal should be made at least 45 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 45 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected by the pendency of the
application.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-811 LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City Inspector shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed
30 days if he or she determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter.
      (2)   Is required to register under the Nebraska Sex Offender
Registration Act.
      (3)   Engaged in or permitted or did not control excessive use of
alcoholic beverages on the sexually oriented business premises.
      (4)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (5)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
   (B)   Appeal of the decision of the City Inspector as to the existence of or
non-compliance with the above matters shall be made to the City Council.
Hearing will be informal and the rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing
will occur within 15 days from the filing of the appeal upon written notice
mailed at least ten days prior to the hearing to the business address and
applicant residence address as it appears on the application which the licensee
is to amend if the residence address changes.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-812 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
10-811 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke a license if Council determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operates the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in division (A)
(7)(a) of §
10-807 for which the time period required in division (A)(7)(b) of §
10-807 has not elapsed.
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 24 month period, a person or
persons committed an offense in or on the licensed premises of a crime listed
in division (A)(7)(a) of §
10-807 for which a conviction has been obtained and the person or persons
convicted were licensees or employees of the sexually oriented business at the
time the offenses were committed; or
      (7)   A licensee or an employee of the sexually oriented business has
knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises. This
section shall not apply to an adult motel unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed such sexual acts to occur either in exchange for money or in
a public place or within public view.
   (C)   After revocation, the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for two years from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the City Council finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective and
a corrective plan which addresses the violation and assures that the violation
will not occur again is provided to Council. If the license was revoked under
division (B)(5) above, an applicant may not be granted another license until
the appropriate number of years required under division (A)(7)(b) of §
10-807 has elapsed.
   (D)   The determination by the City Council as to the existence of or non-
compliance with the above matters shall be made in an open City Council session
after mailing notice of hearing time, place and date to the license holder or
its representatives fifteen days in advance of said hearing, stating that
Council will consider revoking the license and the grounds there for. At said
hearing, the license holder or its representatives may present oral or written
evidence in support of the continuance of its license and may confront and
question any witnesses or evidence in opposition to the continuation of its
license. Although rules of evidence do not apply, any decision will be based on
credible evidence of violation of the requirements as stated herein.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-813 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the location designated in the license.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-814 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated or caused
to be operated, in any zoning district other than a C-1 and C-3 zoning district
as defined in the City of Holdrege Codified Ordinances.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated or caused
to be operated, within 500 feet of:
      (1)   A church or other building primarily used for religious services or
associated church structure such as a parish or fellowship hall;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities,
nursery schools, preschools, home schools, elementary schools, middle schools,
high schools, special education schools and community colleges. School includes
the school grounds and playgrounds;
      (3)   A property line of a lot devoted to a residential use, either
single or multiple family;
      (4)   A park;
      (5)   A hospital;
      (6)   Community recreation center;
      (7)   Public library;
      (8)   Facility for youth service such as youth center, boys or girls
club, scout, 4-H or other youth program meeting building.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated, caused
to be operated or substantially enlarged, within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   (1)   For the purposes of §
10-814(B), measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is
conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed in §
10-814(B).
      (2)   The presence of any political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section.
   (E)   For purposes of division (C) of this section, the distance between any
two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to any intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall
of the structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-815 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on February 28,
2007, that is in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming
use. The non-conforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to
exceed three years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such non-conforming uses shall
not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be
changed to a conforming use upon application and issuance of a license.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the establishment of a §
10-814(B) use, subsequent to the grant of the sexually oriented business
license, within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has expired, has not
been continuously in effect, or has been revoked.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-816 FILMS OR VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, classified as an adult arcade, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of 150 square feet or less of floor space a film, video cassette,
or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any reason from at least one of the manager's stations and all must be staffed
when viewing access is made available so that all areas other than restrooms
are supervised at all times viewing access is permitted. The supervision
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(2) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times and to
ensure that to patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has
been designated as an area In-which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (5)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under division (A) above commits a misdemeanor
if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-817 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY OR SEMI-NUDITY.
   (A)   No person shall appear, in a sexually oriented business, in a state of
nudity or engage in or simulate specified sexual activities.
   (B)   No person shall appear, in a sexually oriented business, in a semi-
nude condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be
at least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet
from the door.
   (C)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer, and no patron or
customer shall pay or give any gratuity to any employee while said employee is
semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
touch a patron or customer or the clothing of a patron or customer.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-818 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING ALCOHOL.
   No sexually oriented business shall sell or serve alcohol and no sexually
oriented business shall permit the consumption of alcohol on the premises of
the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-819 PROHIBITION OF CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   No person under the age of 19 years shall be allowed on the premises of a
sexually oriented business and it is the licensee's affirmative duty to enforce
this minor age restriction through supervision and verification by
identification.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-820 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business may remain open at anytime between the hours
of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 10-821 DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS TO MINORS.
   (A)   No licensee or employee of a licensee shall permit a person under the
age of 19 years of age to be present on its business premises, which age
limitation will be enforced by age verification by said business.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall display posters, signs, depictions
or other visual representations outside walls or on any inside or outside
window which depict any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks,
or that portion of the female “breast below the top of the areolae of the
nipple;” or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (C)   The windows and doors of a sexually oriented business will be tinted
to the extent that there is no view of the interior from the exterior of the
business.
   (D)   “Display” means to locate an item in such a manner that, without
obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
ARTICLE 9: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
10-901   Violation; penalty
§ 10-901 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or
provisions of any article or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in: the particular article or section
for which the person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such
violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $300 in the discretion of the
court.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. A violation of the rules of this chapter shall
be deemed a nuisance. Whenever a nuisance exists, the municipality may proceed
by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner provided by
law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(2005 Code, § 10-801) (Am. Ord. 2280, passed 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
      
2.   DISTRICT REGULATIONS
      
3.   CONDITIONAL USES
      
4.   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
      
5.   SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
      
6.   NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
      
7.   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
      
8.   BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
      
9.   AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE
      
10.   ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND INTERPRETATION
      
11.   MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
      
12.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1: TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11-101   Title, purpose and definitions
   
11-102   Compliance with ordinance provisions
   
11-103   Classification of districts
   
11-104   Zoning maps
   
11-105   Jurisdictional area
§ 11-101 TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of
the City of Holdrege, Nebraska”.
   (B)   Purposes. The several purposes of this chapter are: to encourage the
most appropriate use of land; to conserve and stabilize the value of property;
to aid in the rendering of fire and police protection; to provide adequate open
space for light and air; to lessen the congestion on streets; to give an
orderly growth to the city; to prevent undue concentrations of population; to
facilitate adequate provisions for community utilities and facilities such as
water, sewerage, electrical distribution systems, transportation, schools,
parks and other public requirements; and, in general, to promote public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the masculine includes the
feminine and neuter, and the singular includes the plural. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use incidental and subordinate
to the main use of the property, including a home occupation, and which is
located on the same lot with the main use.
      ADULT DAY CARE.
         (a)   A service which allows for structured social and habilitation
activities. It may:
            1.   Alleviate deteriorating effects of isolation; and/or
            2.   Aid in transitions from one living arrangement to another.
         (b)   The services are provided outside of the client’s place of
residence for a period of four or more hours daily, but less than 24 hours
(Social Services Block Grant - Title XX).
      ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE.
         (a)   A service which allows for structured social, habilitation and
health activities. It may:
            1.   Alleviate deteriorating affects of isolation;
            2.   Aid in transition from one living arrangement to another; and/
or
            3.   Provide a supervised environment while the regular caregiver
is working or otherwise unavailable.
         (b)   It is provided outside of the client’s place of residence for a
period of four or more hours daily, but less than 24 hours (state’s Health and
Human Services Regulations and Licensure Manual, H & CB Services 480 NAC 5-
005).
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for the purpose of raising and harvesting
crops; or for the raising, breeding or management of livestock, poultry or
honeybees; or for dairying, truck gardening, forestry, nurseries or orchards;
or for the non-commercial on-farm storage or processing of agricultural
products; or for other similar agricultural, horticultural or silvacultural
use.
      ALLEY. A narrow street through a block primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on another street.
      ANIMAL UNIT. One animal unit shall equal one head of slaughter or feeder
cattle or exotic animals such as a llama, ostrich, emu or the like, seven-
tenths head of mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows), five hogs each
weighing over 55 pounds, one head of horses, ten sheep or lambs, 55 turkeys,
125 laying hens or broilers if the facility has continuous overflow watering,
30 laying hens or broilers if the facility has a liquid manure system and/or
five ducks.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from the grade to the floor below is greater than the vertical distance from
the grade to the ceiling.
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN.
      BUILDING. A structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
      BUILDING LINE. The line, parallel to the street line, that passes through
the principal building nearest the front lot line. (Refer to Picture #1.)
   Picture #1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ee00b598e9acf1c59792b75586fe8aaf0104e38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1843.png]
      CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a public or parochial school
which provides care to 13 or more children from more than one family, and is
required to be licensed as a child care center by the state’s Department of
Health and Human Services System, as provided and defined under 474 NAC Ch. 6,
§ 002.
      CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care (for children) for
compensation which is or should be licensed by the state’s Department of Health
and Human Services System, in which one person can supervise up to eight
children and two persons can supervise up to 12 children in a residential
dwelling, under the authority of Neb. RS 71-1908, as provided and defined under
474 NAC Ch. 6, § 002.
      CITY or COMMUNITY. The City of Holdrege, Nebraska.
      CITY GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. An official map, master or development
plan, street plan, land use plan, building setback plan, design plan or other
map, plan or policy pertaining to the physical development of the city which
has been officially adopted by the Council and/or Planning Commission in
accordance with state law.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing two or more dwelling
units.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached building containing one dwelling unit.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one family and
not having more than one cooking facility.
      EMPLOYEES. All persons, including proprietors, working on the premises
during the largest shift at peak season.
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
legal adoption or guardianship living together in a dwelling unit in which
board and lodging may also be provided for not more than four additional
persons, excluding servants; or a group of not more than five persons who need
not be related by blood, marriage, legal adoption or guardianship living
together in a dwelling unit.
      FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL. See INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK FACILITIES/OPERATIONS.
      FENCE, SIGHT-OBSCURING. A fence or any planting arranged in such a way as
to obstruct vision.
      FLOOR AREA. The area included in surrounding walls of a building, or
portion thereof, exclusive of vents, shafts and courts.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building used
for the parking or temporary storage of vehicles or used by occupants of the
main building.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care
and repair of motor vehicles or where such vehicles are parked or stored for
compensation, hire or sale.
      GRADE (GROUND LEVEL). The average of the finished ground level at the
center of all walls of the building. In case walls are parallel to and within
five feet of a sidewalk, the above-ground level should be measured at the
sidewalk.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
grade at the front face of the building to the highest point of the copying of
a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of
the highest gable of a pitched, hipped or shed roof.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on within a dwelling or accessory
building by members of the family occupying the dwelling with no servant,
employee or other person being engaged; provided, the residence character of
the building is maintained and the occupation is conducted in such a manner as
not to give an outward appearance, nor manifest any characteristic of a
business in the ordinary meaning of the term, nor infringe upon the right of
neighboring residents to enjoy the peaceful occupancy of their homes.
      HOSPITAL. An establishment which provides sleeping and eating facilities
to persons receiving medical, obstetrical or surgical care and nursing service
on a continuous basis.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided for guests for
compensation and in which no provision is made for cooking in the guest rooms.
      INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK FACILITIES/OPERATIONS. A lot or portion of a lot used
for the enclosing and feeding of livestock for market.
      KENNEL. A lot or building in which four or more dogs or cats at least
four months of age are kept commercially for board, propagation or sale.
      LOT. A parcel or tract of land which is occupied by a structure together
with the yards and other open spaces required by this chapter.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two intersecting streets other than an
alley; provided that, the streets do not intersect at an angle greater than 135
degrees.
      LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot
line to the midpoint of the rear lot line.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, the lot line separating
the lot from the street other than an alley, and in the case of a corner lot,
the shortest lot line along a street other than an alley.
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line and, in the case of an irregular, triangular or other shaped
lot, a line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, ordinarily
measured parallel to the front lot line.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure which is to be used as a
place for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a
permanent site, which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame
any wheels or axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was built to
compliance with National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards,
24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et seq., promulgated by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development, or modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS
71-1557 bearing the seal of the Department of Health.
      MOBILE HOME. A year-round, transportable structure which is a single-
family dwelling unit suitable for permanent, more than 30 days of living
quarters, more than eight feet wide and 40 feet in length and built to be towed
on its own chassis with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. This portable dwelling may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or two or more units, separately towable, but designed to be joined as one
integral unit. Nothing in this definition shall be construed so as to include
prefabricated, modular, precut dwelling units or these manufactured in sections
or parts away from the site and transported thereto for assembly.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of land which one or more mobile homes are
parked, connected to utilities and used by one or more persons for living or
sleeping purposes. A mobile home parked in this area can either be placed on a
permanent foundation or supported only by its wheels, jacks, blocks or
skirtings or a combination of these devices. A MOBILE HOME PARK includes any
premises set apart for supplying to the public parking space, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes for one or more mobile homes, connected to
utilities and used by one or more persons for living, or sleeping purposes and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
      MODULAR HOME. Any dwelling whose construction consists entirely of or the
major portions of its construction consist of a unit or units not fabricated on
the final site for the dwelling units, which units are movable or portable
until placed on a permanent foundation and connected to utilities. All MODULAR
HOMES shall bear a label certifying that it was built to compliance with the
state’s Department of Health and Human Services System as established in Neb.
RS 71-1557.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings on the same lot containing guest
units with separate entrances from the building exterior and consisting of
individual sleeping quarters, detached or in connecting rows, with or without
cooking facilities, for rental to transients.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A lawful existing structure or use at
the time this chapter or any amendments thereto becomes effective which does
not conform to the requirements of the zone in which it is located.
      PARKING SPACE. A rectangular area containing not less than 200 square
feet with maneuvering and access space required for a standard American
automobile to park within the rectangle.
      PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
      SCREENING. See FENCE, SIGHT-OBSCURING.
      SERVICE DRIVE. A driveway entering a street from a drive-in business
establishment or an off-street parking area, excluding residential driveways,
serving fewer than ten dwelling units.
      SETBACKS. See YARD.
      SIGN. A presentation or representation, other than a house number, by
words, letters, figures, designs, pictures or colors publicly displayed so as
to give notice relative to a person, a business, an article or merchandise, a
service, an assemblage, a solicitation or a request for aid or other type of
advertising. This includes the board, metal or surface upon which the sign is
painted, included or attached. Each display surface of a sign shall be
considered to be a SIGN.
      STABLE. A lot or building in which one or more horses are kept for
personal use, commercially for board, propagation purposes or for sale. Where
permitted, there shall be three acres of land provided for each animal.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of
any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above; except that, the top
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the top floor and the ceiling above. If the finished floor level directly above
a basement or cellar is more than six feet above grade, such basement or cellar
shall be considered a STORY.
      STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way which
provides for public use for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and
the placement of utilities and including the terms “road”, “highway”, “land”,
“place”, “avenue”, “alley” or other similar designations.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a
structure including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or
girders, or any structural change in the roof.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed. An edifice or building of
any kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner and which requires location on the ground or
which is attached to something having a location on the ground.
      SUPERVISED GROUP HOME HOUSING. A facility licensed or approved by the
state in which more than four but less than eight persons who are unrelated by
blood; marriage or adoption reside while receiving therapy or counseling, but
not nursing care, for any of the purposes listed below:
         (a)   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps
of physical disability;
         (b)   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the handicaps
of emotional or mental disorder, cerebral palsy, autism or mental retardation;
or
         (c)   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
      VISION CLEARANCE AREA. A triangular area on a lot at the intersection of
two streets or a street and a railroad, two sides of which are lot lines
measured from the corner intersection of the lot lines to a distance specified
in the regulations. The third side of the triangle is a line across the corner
of the lot joining the ends of the other two sides. Where the lot lines at
intersections have rounded corners, the lot lines will be extended in a
straight line to a point of intersection. The VISION CLEARANCE AREA contains no
plantings, walls, structures or temporary or permanent obstructions exceeding
two and one-half feet in height measured from the top of the curb or existing
grade.
      YARD. An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard between side lot lines and measured horizontally at
right angles to the front lot line from the front lot line to the nearest point
of the main building or, if no building is on the lot, the building setback
line. (Refer to Picture #2.)
   Picture #2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ee00b598e9acf1c59792b75586fe8aaf0104e38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1845.png]
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally at right angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between a building and the side lot line measured
horizontally at right angles to the side lot line from the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building or, if no building is on the lot, the
building setback line.
(2005 Code, § 11-101)
§ 11-102 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   No structure or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged or altered contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-102)
§ 11-103 CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the city and its extraterritorial zoning area
are divided into zones designated as follows:
Abbreviated Districts Designations
Abbreviated Districts Designations
Agricultural District
   Agricultural         A
Commercial Districts
   Central Business     C-2
   Neighborhood CommerciC-1
   Service Commercial   C-3
Industrial District
   Industrial           I
Residential Districts
   Large Lot            R
   Mobile Home Park     MH
   Multiple Family      R-2
   One-Family           R-1
   One-Family TransitionR-3
 
(2005 Code, § 11-103)
§ 11-104 ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   The location of boundaries of the districts designated in §
11-103 of this article are hereby established as shown on two maps entitled
“Zoning Maps of the City of Holdrege” dated 2-3-1998, and signed by the Mayor
and City Clerk, and hereinafter referred to as the “zoning maps”. One map shall
show the area within the corporate limits of the city and one map shall show
the extraterritorial zoning area of the city.
   (B)   The zoning maps and all notations thereon are hereby made a part of
this chapter.
   (C)   The signed copy of each of the zoning maps containing the zoning
districts designated at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk. All dates of any amendments to the
zoning maps shall be promptly entered onto these official zoning regulations.
   (D)   These maps shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of all parcels of land within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 11-104)
§ 11-105 JURISDICTIONAL AREA.
   These zoning regulations shall apply to all areas within the corporate
limits of the city, as it presently exists or as hereafter established, and any
unincorporated areas lying outside of, but within, two miles of the nearest
point of the city limits as shown on the official zoning map of the
extraterritorial area.
(2005 Code, § 11-105)
ARTICLE 2: DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-201   A District; Agricultural District
   
11-202   R District; Large Lot Residential District
   
11-203   R-1 District; One-Family Residential District
   
11-204   R-2 District; Multiple-Family Residential District
   
11-205   MH Mobile Home Park District
   
11-206   R-3 District; One-Family Transitional District
   
11-207   C-1 District; Neighborhood Commercial District
   
11-208   C-2 District; Central Business District
   
11-209   C-3 District; Service Commercial District
   
11-210   I District; Light Industrial District
§ 11-201 A DISTRICT; AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain land and structures used
primarily for agricultural purposes.
   (B)   The regulations for this district are intended to recognize the
transition between agricultural uses of land and communities; to encourage the
continued use of that land which is suitable for agriculture, but limit any
land uses that may be detrimental to normal community expansion.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Agriculture uses, with a maximum of one animal unit per acre,
excluding the expansions of existing or development of new intensive livestock
facilities operations exceeding one animal unit per acre;
         (b)   One-family detached dwellings used in conjunction with
agricultural operations. One- family dwellings not used in conjunction with
agricultural operations shall not be located within one-quarter mile of an
existing commercial feedlot, as defined herein;
         (c)   Cemeteries, including crematories, columbariums and mausoleums
when used in conjunction with a cemetery;
         (d)   Dog kennels; provided, no structure or pen housing any animals
shall be located nearer than 750 feet to the boundary of any residential
district;
         (e)   Educational institutions, as follows:
            1.   Boarding schools and academies;
            2.   Colleges and universities; and
            3.   Primary, intermediate and secondary schools.
         (f)   Child care centers when located in a non-residential building;
         (g)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes and nursing homes;
         (h)   Libraries and museums;
         (i)   Oil or gas well drilling; provided, such well is, or will be,
located more than 500 feet from any school, residential district boundary or
any residential building other than a residential building occupied by the
owner, lessee or operator of the premises on which the well is located;
         (j)   Public service and public utility uses, as follows; provided,
such use is, or will be, located more than 300 feet from the boundary of any
residential district:
            1.   Electric and telephone substations and distribution centers;
            2.   Gas regulator stations;
            3.   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes,
mains, valves or other similar equipment for the transmission, as distinguished
from distribution to consumers, of telephone or other communications,
electricity, gas or water, operated or maintained by a public utility, as
defined in this or these regulations;
            4.   Police or fire stations;
            5.   Pumping stations;
            6.   Radio, television and microwave transmitting or relay stations
and towers;
            7.   Telephone exchanges;
            8.   Transformer stations;
            9.   Water reservoirs and standpipes; and
            10.   Sanitary landfill.
         (k)   Recreational and social facilities, as follows:
            1.   Country clubs, including golf, swimming and tennis clubs;
            2.   Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges, pitch and
putt or miniature golf courses;
            3.   Non-commercial recreational buildings, community centers,
auditoriums, stadiums and arenas;
            4.   Parks and playgrounds;
            5.   Privately owned dwellings for seasonal occupancy and not
designed or used for permanent occupancy, such as summer homes and cottages,
and hunting and fishing lodges and cabins; and
            6.   Public athletic fields.
         (l)   Religious institutions as follows:
            1.   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
            2.   Convents, seminaries, monasteries and nunneries; and
            3.   Rectories, parsonages and parish houses.
         (m)   Stables, provided no structure housing horses shall be located
nearer than 750 feet from the boundary of a residential district;
         (n)   Well head stations, well separators and other similar above the
ground facilities customarily used for distribution, transmission or storage of
oil or natural gas, provided no such equipment shall be located nearer than 500
feet from the boundary of any residential district. Such equipment may be in
enclosed buildings or in the open, but must be completely enclosed behind a
chain link fence with a two-inch or less mesh, or its equivalent, not less than
six feet in height; and
         (o)   Supervised group home housing for the developmentally disabled
as licensed by the state.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Airports;
         (b)   Community sewage treatment plants;
         (c)   Excavation, extraction or mining of sand, gravel or other raw
materials from the earth for resale. The conditions imposed on such excavation,
extraction or mining may include but are not limited to, requirements for
setbacks from schools and residential districts, screening, fencing,
redevelopment and restrictions on the grade of the excavation and vehicular
access thereto;
         (d)   Intensive livestock facilities/operations, as defined in these
regulations and in conformance with all requirements of state regulations
governing such activities. These facilities/ operations shall not be located
within one-half mile of the corporate limits of the city or within one-quarter
mile of an existing residential dwelling;
         (e)   Garbage and trash dumps;
         (f)   Greenhouses, including hotbeds, coldbeds and publicly and
privately-owned experimental stations for horticultural research and
development;
         (g)   Landscape gardening contractors’ offices and yards;
         (h)   Nurseries;
         (i)   Oil or gas well drilling when not permitted by subsection (B)(1)
(i) above;
         (j)   Rose gardens;
         (k)   Recreational facilities such as campgrounds, youth camps, gun
clubs and skeet and trap shooting ranges;
         (l)   Public service and public utility uses listed in subsection (B)
(1)(j) above, but which are, or will be, located nearer than 300 feet to the
boundary of a residential district;
         (m)   Truck gardens, including the growing of fruit, vegetables,
berries, melons and flowers;
         (n)   Sanitary landfill;
         (o)   Wholesale florists;
         (p)   Where airports have been established the Holdrege Airport
Authority shall have the authority to allow the placement of one mobile home on
the airport for the exclusive use of the airport manager and his or her
immediate family;
         (q)   One mobile home as a temporary residence located on not less
than 50 acres of farm land used entirely for agricultural purposes; provided
that, said residence is occupied only by a full-time employee of the owner,
lessee or renter of said farm land; and
         (r)   Residential building on no less that one-half acre lots in an
agricultural zone within the city limits. The minimum lot frontage to be no
less than 100 feet.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-514, regarding sign regulations.
      (4)   Lot size.
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be five acres;
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. Yard requirements in an A Agricultural
District shall be as follows:
         (a)   Minimum front yard: 50 feet, measured from the front lot line,
or 80 feet, measured from the centerline of section line road or major arterial
street or highway, whichever is greater;
         (b)   Minimum side yard on each side of a lot:
            1.   One-family dwellings: ten feet; and
            2.   All other permitted and conditional uses: 15 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In an A Agricultural District, no building
shall exceed 45 feet in height; except that, silos, barns and structures used
strictly for agricultural purposes may exceed this height.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In an A Agricultural District, buildings shall not
occupy more than 30% of the lot area.
(2005 Code, § 11-201)
§ 11-202 R DISTRICT; LARGE LOT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain quiet, low-density residential
areas of the city, plus certain open areas where similar residential
development appears likely to occur. The regulations for this district are
designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the
district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for family life where
children are members of many families and to prohibit activities of a
commercial nature. To these ends, development is limited to single-unit
dwellings providing homes for the residents, plus certain public facilities,
which serve the residents of the district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all R Districts.
      (1)   Uses permitted outright.
         (a)   One-family dwelling and their accessory uses;
         (b)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-513, of this chapter;
         (c)   Home occupations in accordance with Art. 5, §
11-503, of this chapter;
         (d)   Church; and
         (e)   School: primary, elementary, junior high or senior high.
      (2)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted in an R District when authorized in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Governmental structure or use including public park, playground,
recreation building, fire station, library or museum; and
         (b)   Utility substation or pumping station with no equipment storage.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-514, of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in an R District shall be as follows:
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 90
feet; and
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 125 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The yards in an R District shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet or an established
setback line.
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of 10% of the width of lot at
the building line; except that, on corner lots, the setback for all buildings
shall be a minimum of 25 feet on the side abutting the street.
         (c)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet.
         (d)   The entrance side of a garage or carport shall be set back at
least 25 feet from the access street; except that, in the case of an alley, the
entrance shall be set back at least 18 feet from the property line of the
alley.
      (6)   Height of building. In an R District, the primary structure shall
not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is less.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In an R District, buildings shall not occupy more
than 30% of the lot area.
      (8)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the supplementary
provision in §
11-515 of this chapter.
      (9)   Accessory use structures. In an R District, an accessory use
structure shall nor exceed 20 feet in height or 1,200 square feet in size.
(2005 Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 2150, passed 2-3-1998; Ord. 2387, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 11-203 R-1 DISTRICT; ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain quiet, low-density residential
areas of the city, plus certain open areas where similar residential
development appears likely to occur. The regulations for this district are
designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the
district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for family life where
children are members of most families and to prohibit activities of a
commercial nature. To these ends, development is limited to single-unit
dwellings providing homes for the residents plus certain public facilities,
which serve the residents of the district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all R-1 Districts.
      (1)   Uses permitted outright.
         (a)   One-family dwelling and their accessory uses;
         (b)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-513, of this chapter;
         (c)   Home occupations in accordance with Art. 5, §
11-503, of this chapter;
         (d)   Church;
         (e)   School: primary, elementary, junior high, senior high; and
         (f)   Hospital, sanitarium, rest home, home for the aged, nursing or
convalescent home.
      (2)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted in an R-1 District when authorized in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Governmental structure or use including public park, playground,
recreation building, fire station, library or museum;
         (b)   Utility substation or pumping station with no equipment storage;
         (c)   Supervised group home for youth operated by the state or agency
or department thereof; or duly licensed, franchised or authorized by the state;
and
         (d)   Duplex (a building containing two dwelling units per lot).
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-514, of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in an R-1 District shall be as follows.
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet for an interior
lot and 8,000 square feet for a corner lot.
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet for an interior lot and 60 feet for a corner lot.
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The yards in an R-1 District shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of 10% of the width of lot at
the building line; except that, on corner lots, the setback for all buildings
shall be a minimum of 25 feet on the side abutting a street.
         (c)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet.
         (d)   The entrance side of a garage or carport shall be set back at
least 25 feet from the access street; except that, in the case of an alley, the
entrance shall be set back at least 18 feet from the property line of the
alley.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In an R-1 District, the primary structure
shall not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In an R-1 District, buildings shall not occupy more
than 30% of the lot area.
      (8)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
regulations provided herein and with the supplementary provision in §
11-515 of this chapter.
      (9)   Accessory use structures. In an R-l District, an accessory use
structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height or 1,200 square feet in size.
(2005 Code, § 11-203) (Ord. 2388, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 11-204 R-2 DISTRICT; MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain high density residential areas of
the city, plus certain open areas were similar development appears likely to
occur. The regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect
the essential characteristics of the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life and to prohibit activities of a commercial
nature. To these ends, development is limited to a relatively high
concentration and uses are typically one-family, two-family and multiple-
family dwellings, plus certain additional uses such as schools, parks, churches
and certain public facilities which serve the residents of the district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all R-2 Districts.
      (1)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted outright in an R-2 District:
         (a)   One-family dwellings and their accessory uses;
         (b)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-513, of this chapter;
         (c)   Multiple-family dwellings;
         (d)   Home occupations in accordance with Art. 5, §
11-503, of this chapter;
         (e)   Church;
         (f)   School: primary, elementary, junior high, senior high; and
         (g)   Hospital, sanitarium, rest home, home for the aged, nursing or
convalescent home.
      (2)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted in an R-2 District in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   A use permitted as a conditional use in an R-1 District;
         (b)   Multiple-family dwelling exceeding the lot area per dwelling
unit standard specified in subsection (B)(4)(a) below or exceeding the height
limits specified in subsection (B)(6) below; provided, the gross floor area
does not exceed two and one-half times the lot area; provided further that, the
side yards are increased one foot per every two foot increase in building
height over 35 feet;
         (c)   Offices for doctors, dentists, other practitioners of the
healing arts; attorneys; architects; engineers; insurance agents; surveyors;
accountants; beauty shops; or realtors; provided that, such uses shall be
located only in a one-story building which meets the fire district standards of
a business or industrial zone;
         (d)   Boarding houses, dormitories;
         (e)   Mortuaries;
         (f)   Child care centers; and
         (g)   Adult day care and/or adult day health care facilities.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of Art. 5, §
11-514, of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in an R-2 District shall be as follows.
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet for a one-family
dwelling and 1,500 square feet per dwelling unit for a multiple-family
dwelling, except as provided by subsection (B)(2)(b) above and that no single
lot shall be less than 7,000 square feet. The minimum lot area for all other
uses shall be 7,000 square feet.
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet.
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. In an R-2 District, the yards shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The front yard shall be the same as required in an R-1 District.
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of 10% of the width of lot at
the building line; except that, on corner lots, the setback for all buildings
shall be a minimum of 25 feet on the side abutting a street.
         (c)   The rear yard shall be the same as required in an R-1 District.
         (d)   A garage or carport shall be set back the same as required in an
R-1 District.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In an R-2 District, the primary structure
shall not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In an R-2 District, buildings shall not occupy more
than 40% of lot area.
      (8)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provision in §
11-515 of this chapter.
      (9)   Accessory use structures. In an R-2 District, an accessory use
structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height or 1,200 square feet in size.
(2005 Code, § 11-204) (Ord. 2389, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 11-205 MH MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   The MH District is designed to provide a district in which the density
of development will remain relatively low. Individual mobile homes will not be
allowed on individual zoning lots. Mobile home parks will be governed by the
mobile home ordinance of the city. No mobile home park shall be permitted,
except when served by an approved sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to the MH District.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Mobile home parks, in conformance with the provisions of Art.
11, Mobile Home Regulations, and Art. 12, Subdivision Regulations, of this
chapter;
         (b)   Mobile homes in conformance with Art. 11 of this chapter;
         (c)   Manufactured, and/or modular homes in accordance with Art. 5, §
11-513, of this chapter;
         (d)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
         (e)   Parks and playgrounds; and
         (f)   Schools: primary, intermediate and secondary.
      (2)   Conditional uses. None.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514 of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size.
         (a)   Minimum area:
            1.   Mobile home parks: two acres; provided that, mobile home parks
shall be permitted only when served by a sanitary sewer system approved in
accordance with city health regulations and by regulations governing mobile
home parks; and
            2.   Other permitted uses: 7,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements in the MH District
shall be the same as those required in the R-2 District.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In an MH District, the primary structure shall
not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is less.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In a MH District, no structure shall occupy more than
30% of the lot area.
      (8)   Limitations on use. Each mobile home park shall be subject to the
provisions of the city regulations governing mobile homes and mobile home parks
and shall be served by a sanitary sewer system approved in accordance with city
health regulations.
      (9)   Accessory use structures. In an MH District, an accessory use
structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height or 1,200 square feet in size.
(2005 Code, § 11-205) (Ord. 2390, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 11-206 R-3 DISTRICT; ONE-FAMILY TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain quiet, low density residential
areas of the city, plus certain open areas where similar residential
development appears likely to occur. The regulations for this district are
designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the
district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for family life where
children are members of most families and to prohibit activities of a
commercial nature. To these ends, development is limited to single-unit
dwellings on permanent foundations, providing homes for the residents of the
district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all R-3 Districts:
      (1)   Uses permitted outright.
         (a)   One-family dwellings and their accessory uses;
         (b)   Manufactured and modular homes in accordance with the provisions
of Art. 5, §
11-513, of this chapter;
         (c)   Mobile homes and sectional homes placed on permanent
foundations;
         (d)   Home occupations in accordance with Art. 5, §
11-503, of this chapter;
         (e)   Church;
         (f)   School: primary, elementary, junior high, senior high; and
         (g)   Hospital, sanitarium, rest home, home for the aged, nursing or
convalescent home.
      (2)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted in an R-3 District when authorized in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Governmental structure or use including public park, playground,
recreation building, fire station, library or museum; and
         (b)   Utility substation or pumping station with no equipment storage.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514 of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in an R-3 District shall be as follows.
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet for an interior
lot and 8,000 square feet for a corner lot.
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet for an interior lot and 60 feet for a corner lot.
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. The yards in an R-3 District shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard shall be a minimum of 10% of the width of lot at
the building line; except that, on corner lots, the setback for all buildings
shall be a minimum of 25 feet on the side abutting a street.
         (c)   The rear yard shall be a minimum of ten feet.
         (d)   The entrance side of a garage or carport shall be set back at
least 25 feet from the access street; except that, in the case of an alley, the
entrance shall be set back at least 18 feet from the property lines of the
alley.
      (6)   Height of building. In an R-3 District, the primary structure shall
not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is less.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In an R-3 District, buildings shall not occupy more
than 30% of the lot area.
      (8)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-515 of this chapter.
      (9)   Accessory use structures. In an R-3 District, an accessory use
structure shall not exceed 20 feet in height or 1,200 square feet in size.
(2005 Code, § 11-206) (Ord. 2391, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 11-207 C-1 DISTRICT; NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain land and structures used
primarily to provide personal services. The regulations for this district are
designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the
district, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for providing service
to the people of the area and to prohibit activities of an industrial nature.
To these ends, development is primarily limited to restricted types and
personal services. The regulations are designed to permit development of the
enumerated functions limited by standards designed to retain a favorable
environment for the proper functioning of the district; plus certain public
facilities which are needed to serve the occupants of the district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all C-1 Districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Bank and/or loan company or other similar financial institution
with emphasis on a drive-up facility;
         (b)   Club, lodge or social/fraternal organization;
         (c)   Convenience store and/or filling station;
         (d)   Eating or drinking establishment;
         (e)   Hotel or motel;
         (f)   Jewelry store, watch and clock repair shop;
         (g)   Medical or dental clinic;
         (h)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
         (i)   Parking lot;
         (j)   Professional offices; provided that, any storage of associated
with such offices shall not exceed 50% of the gross floor area of the principal
structure;
         (k)   Retail store or business;
         (l)   Studio: art, music, dance, health, photographic, radio or
television broadcasting; and
         (m)   Wholesale office and showroom with merchandise on premises
limited to samples only.
      (2)   Conditional uses. The following uses and their accessory uses are
conditionally permitted in a C-1 District subject to the provisions of this
chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Auditorium, exhibitor hail or other public assembly room;
         (b)   Automobile laundry;
         (c)   Automobile service station;
         (d)   Grocery store;
         (e)   Discount retail and/or wholesale outlet;
         (f)   Single-family, duplex and multiple-family dwellings and
associated home occupations; provided, they meet all requirements of the R-
2 Multiple-Family Residential District;
         (g)   Child care centers;
         (h)   Adult day care and/or adult day health care facilities;
         (i)   Theater, not including drive-in type;
         (j)   Commercial amusement/recreation facilities, such as bowling
alleys, miniature golf, arcades and similar facilities;
         (k)   Governmental structure or use including public park, playground,
recreation building, fire station, library or museum;
         (l)   Utility substation or pumping station with no equipment in
storage; and
         (m)   Supervised group home for youth operated by the state or agency
or department thereof; or duly licensed, franchised or authorized by the state.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514 of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in a C-1 District shall be as follows.
         (a)   Lots used for dwelling purposes shall be governed by the
requirements as specified for R-2 Districts.
         (b)   The minimum lot area for non-residential uses shall be 5,000
square feet.
         (c)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet.
         (d)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. In a C-1 District, the yards shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The minimum yard dimensions of the residential district shall
apply on the sides of a lot abutting a residential district.
         (b)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet for all yards
abutting a street.
         (c)   There shall be no side yard requirement for non-residential
uses, except as provided above; provided further that, corner lots shall have a
minimum of 25 feet for all yards abutting a street.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In a C-1 District within 100 feet of a
residential zone, no structure shall exceed 40 feet in height, and in no case
shall such a structure exceed 60 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In a C-1 District, business buildings shall not
occupy more than 50% of the lot area.
      (8)   Limitations on use. In a C-1 District, the following conditions and
limitations shall apply.
         (a)   All business, service, storage, or merchandise display on
property abutting or facing a lot in a residential district shall be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the residential
district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at least six feet in
height.
         (b)   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across a street
from a residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will
cause glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential
properties.
      (9)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-515 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-207)
§ 11-208 C-2 DISTRICT; CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain land and structures used
primarily to provide retailing and personal services, such as clothing stores
and banks, and basically conducted within an enclosed structure. The
regulations for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the
essential characteristics of the district, to promote and encourage a suitable
environment for providing service to the families of the city and to prohibit
activities of an industrial nature. To these ends, development is primarily
limited to retailing and personal services plus those uses permitted in any
residential district and those permitted in §
11-209 of this article. The regulations are designed to permit development of
the enumerated functions limited by standards designed to retain a favorable
environment for the proper functioning of the district, plus certain public
facilities which are needed to serve the occupants of the district.
   (B)   (1)   General. The following uses and their accessory uses are
permitted outright in all C-2 Districts; provided that:
         (a)   There shall be no manufacturing, compounding, processing or
treatment of products other than that which is clearly incidental and essential
to a retail store or business and where all such products are customarily sold
at retail on premises;
         (b)   Such uses, operations or products are not objectionable due to
odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar causes which are not
compatible with other uses in the area; and
         (c)   All articles for sale, rent, display, storage or hire must be
contained within enclosed building, except those uses permitted in §
11-209 of this chapter.
      (2)   Uses permitted outright.
         (a)   Auditorium, exhibitor hall or other public assembly room;
         (b)   Bank, loan company or similar financial institution;
         (c)   Bus passenger station;
         (d)   Club, lodge;
         (e)   Custom dressmaking, tailor shop;
         (f)   Eating or drinking establishment;
         (g)   Hotel, boarding house;
         (h)   Laundry, cleaning or pressing establishment using non-explosive
and non-inflammable cleaning fluid;
         (i)   Locksmith;
         (j)   Medical or dental laboratory;
         (k)   Mortuary;
         (l)   Newsstand;
         (m)   Parking lot or parking garage;
         (n)   Pet shop;
         (o)   Professional office;
         (p)   Railway passenger station or express office;
         (q)   Restaurant, tavern, tearoom or café;
         (r)   Retail store or business;
         (s)   Shoe repair shop;
         (t)   Studio: art, music, dance, health, photographic, radio or
television broadcasting;
         (u)   Second-hand store;
         (v)   Theater, except drive-in type;
         (w)   Pawnshop;
         (x)   Watch and clock repair shop;
         (y)   Wholesale office and showroom with merchandise on the premises
limited to samples only;
         (z)   Governmental correctional facility; and
         (aa)   Other similar retail commercial use, but not including a use
first listed in the C-3 District.
      (3)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted in the C-2 District when authorized in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Dwellings; provided, they shall be governed by the requirements
for the R-2 Residential District;
         (b)   Any use permitted as a conditional use in an R-2 District;
         (c)   Automobile service station;
         (d)   Automobile, truck, trailer or boat sales, repairs, rentals and
storage;
         (e)   Bakery;
         (f)   New building materials sales and storage;
         (g)   Drive-in establishment offering goods or services to customers
waiting in parked motor vehicles, except drive-in theaters;
         (h)   Motel;
         (i)   Printing shop;
         (j)   Bowling center;
         (k)   Warehousing;
         (l)   Manufacturing and assembly of products; and
         (m)   Outside display of merchandise not on public property and for
retail sale on the premises.
      (4)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514 of this chapter.
      (5)   Lot size.
         (a)   Lots used for dwelling purposes shall be governed by the
requirements specified for R-2 Districts.
         (b)   The minimum lot area shall be 2,500 square feet for non-
residential uses.
         (c)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 25
feet.
         (d)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (6)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   No minimum requirement, except as provided below and for
residential structures which shall be governed by R-2 District requirements.
         (b)   The minimum yard dimensions of the residential districts shall
apply on the side of a lot abutting a residential district.
         (c)   There shall be no side yard requirements for non-residential
uses, except as provided above.
      (7)   Height of buildings. In a C-2 District, building height shall not
exceed 60 feet.
      (8)   Lot coverage. In a C-2 District, buildings may occupy 100% of the
lot area, except residential buildings.
      (9)   Limitations on use. In a C-2 District, the following conditions and
limitations shall apply.
         (a)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or
merchandise display (not including those uses in the following sentence) shall
be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for off-street parking
and loading, drive-in windows, minor service for motor vehicles and display of
merchandise along the wall of the building not extending more than five feet
from the wall, sidewalk displays authorized by the city and outside displays in
§
11-209 of this article. Open storage of automobile, boat, truck or trailer for
sale resulting from retailing outlets are permitted, but does not include
salvage operation or storage.
         (b)   All items produced or wares and merchandise handled shall be
sold at retail on the premises, except in the case of §
11-209 of this chapter.
      (10)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-515 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-208)
§ 11-209 C-3 DISTRICT; SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain land and structures used
primarily to provide retailing and personal service of many kinds, including
those uses permitted in the C-2 Districts, plus activities not basically
conducted within an enclosed structure, such as used car lots. The regulations
for this district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential
characteristics of the district, to promote and encourage a suitable
environment for providing service to the people of the area, and to prohibit
activities of an industrial nature. To these ends, development is primarily
limited to all types of retailing and personal services, plus those uses
permitted in any residential district. The regulations are designed to permit
development of the enumerated functions limited by standards designed to retain
a favorable environment for the proper functioning of the district; plus
certain public facilities which are needed to serve the occupants of the
district.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all C-3 Districts.
      (1)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted outright in a C-3 District:
         (a)   Automobile, boat, truck or trailer storage, sales repair and
rental;
         (b)   Automobile laundry;
         (c)   Automobile service station;
         (d)   Business, technical or trade school;
         (e)   Catering establishment;
         (f)   Blueprinting, photostatting or other reproduction process;
         (g)   Bookbindery;
         (h)   Building materials, retail outlet only;
         (i)   Commercial amusements, if conducted wholly within an enclosed
building;
         (j)   Custom manufacturing of goods for retail sale on the premises;
         (k)   Electric power generator, transformer station or substation;
         (l)   Farm machinery sales;
         (m)   Fuel oil storage and distribution with underground tanks;
         (n)   Laboratory;
         (o)   Motel;
         (p)   Newspaper or printing establishment;
         (q)   Public garage, including automobile repairing, and incidental
automobile body and fender work, painting and upholstering, if conducted
completely within an enclosed building;
         (r)   Restaurant;
         (s)   Storage building for household goods;
         (t)   Telephone exchange;
         (u)   Tire shop, including incidental recapping;
         (v)   Plumbing, sign painting, upholstering, cabinet or carpenter
shop;
         (w)   Utility station or substation;
         (x)   Veterinary office or animal hospital;
         (y)   Children’s day care center;
         (z)   Adult day care and/or adult day health care facilities;
         (aa)   Sign painting shop; and
         (bb)   Other similar uses, but not including a use first listed in the
I-1 District.
      (2)   Conditional uses permitted. The following uses are permitted in the
C-3 District when authorized in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter governing conditional uses:
         (a)   Dwellings; provided, they shall be governed by the requirements
for the R-2 Residential District;
         (b)   New building materials sales and storage; and
         (c)   Drive-in theater.
      (3)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514 of this chapter.
      (4)   Lot size. The lot size in a C-3 District shall be as follows:
         (a)   Lots used for dwelling purposes shall be governed by the
requirements as specified for R-2 Districts.
         (b)   The minimum lot area for non-residential uses shall be 5,000
square feet.
         (c)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet.
         (d)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (5)   Setback requirements. In a C-3 District, the yards shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The minimum yard dimensions of the residential district shall
apply on the sides of a lot abutting a residential district.
         (b)   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet for all yards
abutting a street.
         (c)   There shall be no side yard requirement for non-residential
uses, except as provided above; provided further that, corner lots shall have a
minimum yard of 25 feet for all yards abutting a street.
      (6)   Height of buildings. In a C-3 District within 100 feet of a
residential district, no structure shall exceed 40 in height, and in no case
shall such structure exceed 60 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage. In a C-3 District, business buildings shall not
occupy more than 50% of the lot area.
      (8)   Limitations on use. In a C-3 District, the following conditions and
limitations shall apply.
         (a)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or
merchandise display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential
district shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened
from the residential district by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained
at least six feet in height.
         (b)   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across a street
from a residential district shall be prohibited if such access or opening will
cause glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential
properties.
         (c)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer rental or sales lots shall be
drained and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement, except in those portions of
the lot maintained as landscape areas.
      (9)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-515 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-209)
§ 11-210 I DISTRICT; LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is composed of certain lands and structures used
primarily for wholesaling and light industrial purposes. The regulations of
this district are intended to provide intensity standards and standards of
external effect compatible with the surrounding or abutting district. To these
ends, development is limited to wholesaling and light industries which can be
operated in a clean and reasonable quiet manner, plus certain public facilities
which are needed to serve the occupants of the district.
   (B)   (1)   General. The following uses and their accessory uses are
permitted outright in all I Districts; provided that:
         (a)   The storage above ground or below ground of the liquid petroleum
products or chemicals of a flammable or noxious nature shall not exceed 150,000
gallons when stored on one lot of less than one acre in area nor shall storage
exceed more than 25,000 gallons in one tank. Storage of liquid petroleum
products or chemicals of a flammable or noxious nature in excess of 25,000
gallons, shall not be located closer than 50 feet from any structure intended
for human habitation or closer than 200 feet from any residential district;
         (b)   All open and unlandscaped portions of any lot shall be
maintained in good condition free from weeds, dust, trash and debris; and
         (c)   All permitted and conditionally permitted uses are in
conformance with industrial standards delineated in this section.
      (2)   Uses permitted outright. The following uses and their accessory
uses are permitted outright in an I-1 District:
         (a)   Assembly, manufacture or preparation of articles and merchandise
from the following types of previously prepared materials: bone, canvas,
cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur, glass, hair, honey,
lacquer, leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones,
shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood (excluding sawmills, lumber mills,
planing mills and molding plants, but not cabinet shops or woodworking shops),
yarn or paint not employing a boiling process;
         (b)   Assembly of electrical appliances or equipment, electronic
instruments and devices, radios, phonographs, televisions, including the
manufacture of small parts such as coils, condensers, transformers and crystal
holders;
         (c)   Assembly of metal products;
         (d)   Manufacture of figurines, pottery or similar ceramic products
using only previously pulverized clay;
         (e)   Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties, rubber or metal
stamps, toys;
         (f)   Manufacture of optical goods, scientific or precision
instruments or equipment;
         (g)   Manufacture of artificial limbs, dentures, hearing aids,
surgical instruments or dressings or other devices employed by the medical and
dental professions;
         (h)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products or meat, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries; except that, the
rendering of fat or oil; fish or meat slaughtering; and processing of fermented
food such as sauerkraut, vinegar or yeast shall be excluded;
         (i)   Manufacture or maintenance of signs, billboards, commercial
advertising structures, or name plates;
         (j)   Manufacture of medicines;
         (k)   Automobile painting or upholstering;
         (l)   Building of marine pleasure craft;
         (m)   Bottling plant;
         (n)   Cabinet or carpenter’s shop;
         (o)   Coin machine manufacture or repair;
         (p)   Contractor’s equipment storage;
         (q)   Cold storage plant;
         (r)   Dairy products processing;
         (s)   Dwelling for caretaker or watchman working on the property;
         (t)   Electroplating shop;
         (u)   Fuel supply outlet or distributor; providing, no dust is
produced;
         (v)   Laundry, dry cleaning, dyeing or rug cleaning plant;
         (w)   Railroad tracks and facilities such as switching yards, spur or
holding tracks, freight depot;
         (x)   Sheet metal shop or other metal working shop, machine shop not
using drop hammer or punch press;
         (y)   Plumbing contractor;
         (z)   Warehousing;
         (aa)   Welding shop;
         (bb)   Wholesale distributor or outlet; and
         (cc)   Other similar uses in conformance with industrial performance
standards herein.
      (3)   Conditional use permitted. The following uses are permitted in an
I-1 District when authorized in accordance with the requirements of this
section governing conditional uses:
         (a)   All uses that are not listed in permitted uses that are also in
conformance with all stipulations of this section, including the industrial
performance standards detailed in this section;
         (b)   Auto, truck, trailer or boat storage or sales;
         (c)   Building materials storage or sale yard;
         (d)   Drive-in theater;
         (e)   Equipment sales, rental storage or repair;
         (f)   Farm machinery sales or service;
         (g)   Governmental structure or use; and
         (h)   State licensed day care facility with the following
requirements:
            1.   Outside play area to be fenced with a fence six feet in
height;
            2.   Door locks on all doors not essential to the day care
facility;
            3.   Carbon monoxide detectors to be in installed in every room;
and
            4.   Lighted exit signs above all exterior exit doors.
      (4)   Signs. All signs shall be in conformance with the regulations
provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-514.
      (5)   Lot size. The lot size in an I-1 District shall be as follows:
         (a)   The minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet;
         (b)   The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 50
feet; and
         (c)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
      (6)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   In an I-1 District, all sides of the lot abutting a street shall
have a 25-foot setback.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than ten feet.
         (c)   There shall be a minimum rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
      (7)   Height of building. In an I-1 District, no structure shall exceed a
height of 60 feet except that within 100 feet of a residential district no
structure shall exceed 40 feet in height.
      (8)   Lot coverage. In an I-1 District, buildings shall not occupy more
than 70% of the lot area except that not more than 50% of the area of that part
of the lot which is within 100 feet of a residential district shall be covered
by buildings.
      (9)   Limitations on use. In an I-1 District, the following conditions
and limitations shall apply.
         (a)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or
merchandise display on property abutting or facing a lot in a residential
district shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened
from the residential zone by a sight-obscuring fence permanently maintained at
least six feet in height.
         (b)   Openings to structures on sides adjacent to or across a street
from a residential district shall be prohibited if such access or openings will
cause glare, excessive noise or other adverse effects on residential
properties.
         (c)   Motor vehicle, boat or trailer rental, sales or storage lots
shall be drained and surfaced with crushed rock or pavement except in those
portions of the lot maintained as landscape area.
         (d)   Yards abutting or across a street from a residential district
shall be continuously maintained in lawn or other landscaping unless screened
from the residential district as provided in §
11-208(B)(9)(a).
         (e)   Access points from a public road to properties in an I-
1 District shall be so located as to minimize traffic congestion and to avoid
directing traffic onto local access streets of a primarily residential
character.
         (f)   All materials including wastes shall be stored and all grounds
shall be maintained in a manner which will not attract or aid the propagation
of insects and rodents or create a health hazard.
         (g)   The emission of odorous gases or matter in such quantities as to
be readily detectable at any point beyond the property line of the use creating
the odors is prohibited.
      (10)   Industrial performance standards. The performance standards listed
below are minimum standards for industrial land use that shall be met in
conjunction with this district and conformed to federal and state laws.
         (a)   Fire hazard. No operation shall involve the use of highly
flammable gases, acids, liquids, grinding processors or other inherent fire
hazards. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of normal
heating fuels, motor fuels and welding gases when handled in accordance with
other ordinances of the city.
         (b)   Noise. All noise and noise causing activities shall be muffled
so that they will not create a disturbance greater than normal peak hour
traffic noise on a major street when observed from any area zoned residential.
Major street noise for comparison purposes shall be measured on the primary
state highway nearest the industry.
         (c)   Sewage and liquefied wastes. No operation shall be carried on
which involves the discharge into the sewer, watercourse or liquid wastes of
chemical nature which are detrimental to normal sewage plant operations or
corrosive and damaging to sewer pipes and installations.
         (d)   Air contaminates or pollutants.
            1.   Air contaminates and smoke shall be less dark than designated
Number One on the Ringleman Chart as published by the United States Bureau of
Mines, except that smoke of a density designated as Number One shall be
permitted for one four-minute period in each one-half hour. Light colored
contaminates of such an opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree
equal to or greater than the aforesaid shall not be permitted.
            2.   Particulate matter or dust as measured at the point of
emission by any generally accepted method shall not be emitted in excess of
two-tenths grains per cubic foot as corrected to a temperature of 500°F, except
for a period of four minutes in any one-half hour, at which time it may equal
but not exceed six-tenths grains per cubic foot as corrected to a temperature
of 500°F.
            3.   Due to the fact that the possibilities of air contamination
cannot reasonably be comprehensively covered in this section there shall be
applied the general rule that there shall not be discharged from any sources
whatsoever such quantities of air contaminates as constitute a detriment,
nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to the public in
general or endanger the comfort, repose, health or safety of any such
considerable number of persons or have a natural tendency to cause injury or
damage to business, vegetation or property.
         (e)   Odor. The emission of odors that are generally agreed to be
obnoxious to any considerable number of persons, shall be prohibited.
Observations of odor shall be made at the property line of the establishment
causing the odor. As a guide to classification of odor, it shall be deemed that
strong odors of putrefaction and fermentation tend to be obnoxious and that
such odors as associated with baking or the roasting of nuts and coffee shall
not normally be considered obnoxious within the meaning of this ordinance.
         (f)   Gases. The gases sulphur dioxide and hydrogen sulphide shall not
exceed five parts per million, carbon monoxide shall not exceed 25 parts per
million and nitrous fumes shall not exceed five parts per million. All
measurements shall be taken at the property line.
         (g)   Vibration. All machines including punch presses and stamping
machines shall be so mounted as to minimize vibration and in no case shall such
vibration exceed a displacement of three-thousands of a inch measured at the
property line. The use of steam or broad hammers shall not be permitted.
         (h)   Glare and heat. All glare, such as welding arcs and open
furnaces shall be shielded so that they shall not be visible from the property
line. No heat from the furnaces or processing equipment shall be sensed at the
tot line to the extent of raising the temperature of air or materials more than
5°F.
      (11)   Fence regulations. All fences, walls and hedges shall be in
conformance with the regulations provided herein and with the provisions of §
11-515.
(2005 Code, § 11-210) (Ord. 2359, passed - -; Ord. 2413, passed 3-6-2018)
ARTICLE 3: CONDITIONAL USES
Section
   
11-301   Authorization to grant or deny conditional uses
   
11-302   Application for a conditional use
   
11-303   Public hearing on a conditional use
   
11-304   Recess of the hearing by Planning Commission
   
11-305   Action on a conditional use
   
11-306   Notification of action
   
11-307   Standards governing conditional uses
§ 11-301 AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Uses designated in this chapter as conditional uses permitted shall be
permitted or enlarged or altered upon approval by the Planning Commission all
in accordance with the standards and procedures specified in this article. In
permitting a conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition
to the regulations and standards expressly specified by this chapter, other
conditions found necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding
property or neighborhood or the city as a whole. These conditions may include
requirements increasing the required lot size or yard dimensions, increasing
street widths, controlling the location and number of vehicular access points
to the property, increasing the number of off-street parking or loading spaces
required, limiting the number of signs, and reduction of light and air to
adjacent property, requiring screening and landscaping where necessary to
reduce noise and glare and maintain the property in a character in keeping with
the surrounding area, and requirements under which any future enlargement or
alteration of the use shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and new
conditions imposed. Change in use, expansion or contraction of site area, or
alteration of structures or uses classified as conditional existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter, shall conform to all regulations pertaining
to conditional uses.
(2005 Code, § 11-301)
§ 11-302 APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL USE.
   A request for a conditional use or modification of any existing conditional
use may be initiated by a property owner or his or her authorized agent by
filing an application with the Zoning Administrator upon forms prescribed for
the purpose. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to
scale, showing the dimensions and arrangement of the proposed development and
by a fee as established by resolution of the City Council. The Planning
Commission may require other drawings or material essential to an understanding
of the proposed use and its relationship to surrounding properties.
(2005 Code, § 11-302)
§ 11-303 PUBLIC HEARING ON A CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   A proposed conditional use shall be considered by the Planning
Commission at a public hearing held within 45 days after filing of the
application.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall give notice of the hearing in the
following manner:
      (1)   By publication of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city not less than 20 days prior to the date of the hearing; and
      (2)   By sending notices by certified mail not less than ten days prior
to the date of hearing to the property owners within the area enclosed by lines
parallel to and 300 feet from the exterior boundaries of the property involved,
using for this purpose the name and address of owners as shown upon the records
of the County Assessor. Failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate any
proceedings in connection with the application for a conditional use.
(2005 Code, § 11-303)
§ 11-304 RECESS OF THE HEARING BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recess a hearing on a request for a
conditional use in order to obtain additional information or to serve further
notices upon other property owners or persons whom it decides may be interested
in the proposed conditional use.
   (B)   Upon recessing for this purpose, the Planning Commission shall
announce the time and date when the hearing will be resumed.
(2005 Code, § 11-304)
§ 11-305 ACTION ON A CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove a request for a conditional use.
   (B)   A file containing a written record of the action taken by the Planning
Commission with regard to conditional uses shall be maintained by the Planning
Commission.
(2005 Code, § 11-305)
§ 11-306 NOTIFICATION OF ACTION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a conditional use in
writing of the Commission’s action within seven days after the decision has
been rendered.
(2005 Code, § 11-306)
§ 11-307 STANDARDS GOVERNING CONDITIONAL USES.
   A conditional use shall ordinarily comply with the standards of the district
concerned for uses permitted outright, except as specifically modified in
granting the conditional permit or otherwise as follows.
   (A)   Setbacks. In any residential district, no yards provided shall be less
than two-thirds the height of the principal structure. In other districts,
yards may be increased over those required for uses permitted outright when
necessary to meet the general objective conditional use control.
   (B)   Height exception. The height limitations of any district may be
exceeded by a conditional use to a maximum permitted height of 60 feet;
provided that, total floor area of the conditional use shall not exceed one and
one-half times the area of the site; and, provided that, yards have a minimum
width equal to at least two-thirds of the height of the principal structure.
   (C)   Limitations on access to lots and on openings to buildings. The
Planning Commission may limit or prohibit vehicular access from a conditional
use to residential streets not designated as arterial streets on an officially
adopted street plan, and it may limit or prohibit openings insides of a
building or structure permitted as a conditional use within 50 feet of a
residential district if such openings will cause glare, excessive noise or
other adverse effects on adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   Signs. Signs permitted within the district or one indirectly
illuminated or non-illuminated sign on each side of a conditional use abutting
a street shall be permitted, whichever is less restrictive. A sign shall not
exceed 20 square feet in area, shall pertain to the conditional use and may be
located in required yards.
   (E)   Automobile service stations. In addition to the other standards of
this section, automobile service stations, when permitted as conditional uses,
shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The minimum permitted lot size shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Sales of merchandise shall be confined to items used for the
maintenance and servicing of passenger cars.
      (3)   No automobile repairs other than incidental minor repairs, battery
and tire changing shall be allowed on the property.
      (4)   A sight-obscuring fence of not less than five feet, nor more than
six feet, shall be provided between the station site and abutting residential
property.
   (F)   Schools.
      (1)   Nursery schools shall provide and thereafter maintain outdoor play
areas with a minimum area of 100 square feet per child of total capacity. A
sight-obscuring fence at least four feet, but not more than six feet, in height
shall be provided separating the play area from abutting lots.
      (2)   Elementary schools shall provide one acre of site area for each 90
pupils or one acre for each three classrooms, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Intermediate schools shall provide one acre of site area for each
75 pupils or one acre for each two and one-half classrooms, whichever is
greater.
   (G)   Utility substation or pumping substation. The minimum lot size of the
district in which a public utility facility is to be located may be waived only
on finding that the waiver will not result in noise or other detrimental effect
on adjacent property. No equipment storage shall be permitted on the site in a
residential district or in a C-2 District. Such uses shall be fenced and
provided with landscaping as found necessary.
   (H)   Dwellings. In no case shall the standards for a dwelling as a
conditional use be less than the standards of an R-2 District.
(2005 Code, § 11-307)
ARTICLE 4: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
   
11-401   Off-street parking
   
11-402   Off-street loading
   
11-403   General provisions; off-street parking and loading
§ 11-401 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or
change in use of an existing structure within any district in the city a
parking lot permit is required and off-street parking spaces shall be as
provided in this section unless greater requirements are otherwise established.
If parking space has been provided in connection with an existing use or is
added to an existing use, the parking space shall not be eliminated if
elimination would result in less space than is required hereby. Where square
feet are specified, the area measured shall be the floor area primary to the
functioning of the particular use of property and shall exclude: stairwells;
elevator shafts; hallways; ornamental balconies; space occupied by heating, air
conditioning or other utility equipment; and space devoted to off-street
parking or loading. The number of employees of a new or expanding business
shall be estimated in a manner approved by the Board of Adjustment and the
number of employees of an established business shall be determined from an
examination of the payroll. The C-2 District shall be exempt from the parking
requirements of this chapter.
Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Structures and Uses Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                    Regulations                Requirements
Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Structures and Uses       Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                          Regulations                Requirements
Bed and breakfast and     1 space per 2 rental units None required
other lodging houses
Bowling alleys            5 spaces per alley         1 space per establishment
Churches, synagogues and  1 space per 4 seats in
temples                   main unit of worship or 8  None required
                          feet of bench length
Eating and drinking       Parking spaces equal to    2 spaces per establishment
places                    40% of capacity in persons
                          Parking spaces equal to
Education uses, all other 40% of capacity in         2 spaces per structure
                          students
Educational uses, nursery Parking spaces equal to
and primary               20% of capacity in         2 spaces per structure
                          students
Funeral homes chapels     1 space per 4 seats or 8   2 spaces per establishment
                          feet of bench length
Hospitals                 1 space per 2 beds         2 spaces per structure
Hotels                    1 space per 500 square     2 spaces per establishment
                          feet on floor area
Industrial uses           1 space per employee on    2 spaces per establishment
                          largest shift
Libraries                 1 space per 500 sq. ft.    1 space per structure on
                                                     floor area
Medical clinics           5 spaces per staff doctor  None required
                          or dentist
Mobile home park          2 spaces per dwelling unit None required
Motels                    1 space per rental unit    None required
Offices and service       1 space per 200 sq. ft.    1 space per establishment
establishments            gross floor area
Private clubs and lodges  1 space per 500 sq. ft. of 1 space per establishment
                          floor area
Residential structures    2 spaces per dwelling      None required
(multi-family)            unit*
Residential structures
(multi-family) occupants  1-1/2 spaces per dwelling  None required
are 65 years of age and   unit*
older
Residential structures    2 spaces per dwelling unit None required
(single-family)
                          1 space per 200 sq. ft. of
Retail sales              retail floor area, plus 1  1 space per 400 square
                          per employee on largest    feet of floor area
                          shift
Roadside stands           4 spaces per establishment None required
Sanitariums, convalescent 1 space per 3 beds, plus 1 1 space per employee
and rest homes services   space per establishment
Service or repair shop;
retail store handling
exclusively bulky         1 space per establishment  1 space per establishment
merchandise such as
automobiles and furniture
Theaters, auditoriums and 1 space per 5 people in    1 space per establishment
places of assembly        designed capacity
Veterinary establishments 3 spaces per staff doctor  None required
Wholesaling, warehousing
and on largest shift      1 space per 2 employees    2 spaces per establishment
distribution operations
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Enclosed parking garages divided into individual stalls are not counted as
parking spaces
 
(2005 Code, § 11-401)
§ 11-402 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Passengers. A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of
passenger vehicles for the purpose of loading and unloading children shall be
located on the site of any school having a capacity greater than 25 students.
   (B)   Merchandise, materials or supplies. Buildings or structures to be
built or substantially altered which receive and distribute material or
merchandise by truck shall provide and maintain off-street loading berths in
sufficient numbers and size to adequately handle the needs of the particular
use. If loading space has been provided in connection with an existing use or
is added to an existing use, the loading space shall not be eliminated if
elimination would result in less space than is required to adequately handle
the needs of the particular use. Off-street parking areas used to fulfill the
requirements of this chapter shall not be used for loading and unloading
operations, except during periods of the day when not required to take care of
parking needs.
(2005 Code, § 11-402)
§ 11-403 GENERAL PROVISIONS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   The provision and maintenance of off-street parking and loading spaces
is a continuing obligation of the property owner. No building or other permit
shall be issued until plans are presented that show property that is and will
remain available for exclusive use as off-street parking and loading space. The
subsequent use of property for which the building permit is issued shall be
conditional upon the unqualified continuance and availability of the amount of
parking and loading space required by this chapter. Use of property in
violation hereof shall be a violation of this chapter. Should the owner or
occupant of any lot or building change the use to which the lot or building is
put, thereby increasing off-street parking or loading requirements, it shall be
unlawful and a violation of this chapter to begin or maintain such altered use
until such time as the increased off-street parking or loading requirements are
complied with.
   (B)   Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed
herein shall be determined by the Board of Adjustment, after a report and
recommendation from the Planning Commission, based upon the requirements of
comparable uses listed.
   (C)   In the event several uses occupy a single structure or parcel of land,
the total requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the
requirements of the several uses computed separately.
   (D)   Owners of two or more uses, structures, or parcels of land may agree
to utilize jointly the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of
operation do not overlap; provided that, satisfactory legal evidence is
presented to the Building Inspector in the form of deeds, leases or contracts
to establish the joint use.
   (E)   Off-street parking spaces for dwellings shall be located on the same
lot with the dwelling. Other required parking spaces shall be located not
farther than 300 feet from the building or use they are required to serve,
measured in a straight line from the building.
   (F)   Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable
passenger automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and
shall not be used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the parking of
trucks used in conducting the business or use.
   (G)   Unless otherwise provided, required parking and loading spaces shall
not be located in a required front yard, but may be located within a required
side or rear yard.
   (H)   A plan, drawn to scale, indicating how the off-street parking and
loading requirements are to be fulfilled shall accompany an application for a
building permit. The plan shall show all elements necessary to indicate that
the requirement is being fulfilled, including the following:
      (1)   Delineation of individual parking and loading spaces;
      (2)   Circulation area necessary to serve spaces;
      (3)   Access to streets and property to be served;
      (4)   Curb cuts;
      (5)   Dimensions, continuity, and substance of screening;
      (6)   Grading, drainage, surfacing and subgrading details;
      (7)   Delineation of obstacles to parking and circulation in finished
parking area;
      (8)   Specifications as to signs and bumper guards; and
      (9)   Other pertinent details.
   (I)   (1)   Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have
durable and dustless surfaces maintained adequately for all weather use and so
drained as to avoid flow of water across sidewalks.
      (2)   Except for parking to serve residential uses, parking and loading
areas adjacent to or within residential districts or adjacent to residential
uses shall be designed to minimize disturbance of residents by the erection
between the uses of a sight-obscuring fence of not less than five feet, nor
more than six feet, in height, except where vision clearance is required.
      (3)   Parking spaces along the outer boundaries of a parking lot shall be
contained by a curb at least four inches high and set back a minimum of four
feet from the property line or by a bumper rail.
      (4)   Artificial lighting which may be provided shall be so deflected as
not to shine or create glare in any residential district or on any adjacent
dwelling.
      (5)   Access aisles shall be of sufficient width for all vehicles turning
and maneuvering.
      (6)   Except for dwellings, parking spaces shall be so located and served
by a driveway that their use will require no backing movements or other
maneuvering within a street right-of-way other than an alley.
      (7)   Service drives to off-street parking areas shall be designed and
constructed to facilitate the flow of traffic, provide maximum safety of
traffic access and egress and maximum safety for pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the site. The number of service drives shall be limited to the
minimum that will allow the property to accommodate the traffic to be
anticipated. Service drives shall not be more than 36 feet in width and shall
be clearly and permanently marked and defined through use of rails, fences,
walls or other barriers or markers on frontage nor occupied by services drives.
Service drives on the same lot frontage shall be separated by a minimum length
of curb of 30 feet; provided that, for every foot by which the lot frontage
exceeds 100 feet the minimum required length of curb shall be increased by one
foot, up to a maximum requirement of 200 feet. In the case of a corner lot,
service drives shall be located not closer than 30 feet to the intersecting
street line. Service drives shall be located not closer than ten feet to a side
lot line; except that, a common service drive to two adjacent properties with
width not exceeding 36 feet may be provided at the common line.
      (8)   Service drives shall have a minimum vision clearance area formed by
the intersection of the driveway centerline, the street right-of-way line and a
straight line joining said lines through points 30 feet from their
intersection.
   (J)   Required parking spaces shall be improved as required and made
available for use before the final inspection is completed by the Building
Inspector. An extension of time may be granted by the Building Inspector
providing a performance bond, or its equivalent, is posted equaling the cost to
complete the improvements as estimated by the Building Inspector; provided, the
parking space is not required for immediate use. In the event the improvements
are not completed within one year’s time, the bond or its equivalent shall be
forfeited and the improvements thenceforth constructed under the direction of
the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-403) (Ord. 2342, passed 11-15-2011)
ARTICLE 5: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Section
   
11-501   District boundaries
   
11-502   Accessory uses
   
11-503   Home occupations
   
11-504   Projections from buildings
   
11-505   Maintenance of minimum ordinance requirements
   
11-506   General exception to lot size requirements
   
11-507   Exceptions to yard requirements
   
11-508   General exception to building height limitations
   
11-509   Access
   
11-510   Vision clearance areas
   
11-511   Zoning of annexed areas
   
11-512   Exceptions to outside displays
   
11-513   Manufactured home standards
   
11-514   Sign regulations
   
11-515   Fences, walls and hedges
   
11-516   Telecommunications towers
   
11-517   Wind energy systems (WES)
§ 11-501 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Unless otherwise specified, district boundaries are lot lines or the
centerline of streets, alleys, railroad right-of-way or such lines extended.
Where a district divides a land parcel under a single ownership into two
districts, then the entire parcel shall be zoned for the less restrictive use
by the adjustment of the boundaries; provided, the boundary adjustment is a
distance of less than 20 feet. If the adjustment involves a distance of more
than 20 feet, the procedures for a district change shall be followed.
(2005 Code, § 11-501)
§ 11-502 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses shall comply with all requirements for the principal use,
except where specifically modified by this chapter and shall comply with the
following limitations.
   (A)   A greenhouse or hothouse may be maintained accessory to a dwelling
only if there are no sales.
   (B)   A guest house may be maintained accessory to a dwelling; provided,
there are not cooking facilities in the guest house.
   (C)   Regardless of the side yard and rear yard requirements of a
residential zone, a side yard may be reduced to three feet for an accessory
structure erected more than 50 feet from a street other than an alley, a rear
yard may be reduced to three feet for an accessory structure, except the
entrance side of a garage or carport shall not be reduced to less than 18 feet
from an alley; provided, the structure is detached from other buildings by five
feet or more and does not exceed a height of one story, nor an area of 720
square feet.
(2005 Code, § 11-502)
§ 11-503 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall be governed by the following regulations.
   (A)   Home occupations shall not occupy more than 10% of the total floor
area of the main building or, if located in an accessory building, shall not
occupy more than 5% of the total lot area.
   (B)   Home occupations shall be operated entirely from an enclosed
structure.
   (C)   There shall be no visible evidence of the operation.
   (D)   The operation shall not substantially increase traffic in the area.
   (E)   The operation shall not be objectionable due to odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration or other similar causes.
(2005 Code, § 11-503)
§ 11-504 PROJECTIONS FROM BUILDINGS.
   Cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades, gutters, chimneys, flues, belt
courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features and other
similar architectural features may project not more than three feet into a
required yard or into required open space as established by coverage standards.
(2005 Code, § 11-504)
§ 11-505 MAINTENANCE OF MINIMUM ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No lot area, yard or other open space, or required off-street parking or
loading area existing on or after the effective date of this chapter shall be
reduced in area, dimension or size below the minimum required by this chapter,
nor shall any lot area, yard or other open space or off-street parking or
loading area which is required by this chapter for one use be used as the lot
area, yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading area
requirement for any other use.
(2005 Code, § 11-505)
§ 11-506 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   If, at the time of passage of this chapter, a lot, or the aggregate of
contiguous lots or land parcels held in a single ownership, has an area or
dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the district in
which the property is located, the lot or aggregate holdings may be occupied by
any use permitted outright in the district subject to the other requirements of
the district; and, providing, if there is an area deficiency, residential use
shall be limited to a single-family residence.
(2005 Code, § 11-506)
§ 11-507 EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following exception to the front yard requirement for a dwelling
is authorized for a lot in any district.
   (B)   If there are dwellings on both abutting lots with front yards of less
than the required depth for the district, the front yard for the lot need not
exceed the average front yard of the abutting dwellings.
   (C)   If there is a dwelling on one abutting lot with a front yard of less
than the required depth for the district, the front yard for the lot need not
exceed a depth one-half way between the depth of the abutting lot and the
required front yard depth.
(2005 Code, § 11-507)
§ 11-508 GENERAL EXCEPTION TO BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The following type of structures or structural parts are not subject to the
building height limitations of this chapter: chimneys; tanks; church spires;
belfries; domes; monuments; fire and hose towers; observation towers;
transmission towers; smokestacks; flagpoles; radio and television towers;
masts; aerials; cooling towers; elevator shafts; and other similar projections.
(2005 Code, § 11-508)
§ 11-509 ACCESS.
   All lots shall abut a street other than an alley for a width of at least 35
feet.
(2005 Code, § 11-509)
§ 11-510 VISION CLEARANCE AREAS.
   (A)   Vision clearance areas shall be provided with the following distance
establishing the size of the vision clearance area: on a lot in all districts,
except where buildings have, or are allowed to build on the property line, a
continuous unobstructured sight distance shall be provided for safe traffic
operations.
   (B)   No obstruction, including fences, hedges, walls, shrubbery or other
human-made or natural obstructions shall exist between a height of two and one-
half feet and ten feet within the vision clearance area of the following
dimensions from the elevation of the top of the curb or height of driving
surface whichever is higher.
(2005 Code, § 11-510)
§ 11-511 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the city shall, simultaneously with
annexation, be zoned in accordance with the annexation feasibility study or the
Comprehensive Plan recommendations.
(2005 Code, § 11-511)
§ 11-512 EXCEPTIONS TO OUTSIDE DISPLAYS.
   Merchandise displayed for sale outside of an enclosed building in any C-
1 Zone is permitted; provided, the following conditions are complied with: the
owner or tenant of an operating business shall apply for a permit from the
Zoning Administrator prior to each display. Each display may be issued for any
number of days, but each business shall be limited to 60 days of display per
calendar year. Permits shall be issued only to businesses operating from an
existing building.
(2005 Code, § 11-512)
§ 11-513 MANUFACTURED HOME STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicated that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Department of Health or the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
masonry footing and foundation in accordance with the Building Code.
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections.
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located.
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is of
simulated asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safe Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et seq.
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development;
or
      (2)   A modular housing unit, as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing the
seal of the Department of Health.
(2005 Code, § 11-513)
§ 11-514 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All signs are required to have a permit issued by the city and
to be permanently affixed to a building or in the case of ground signs, pole
signs, post signs set in a permanent foundation. Temporary on premises signs
are only permitted upon issuance of a sign permit and shall be issued for a
maximum of 60 days per calendar year for each business establishment. On-
premises banner signs are permitted for each business establishment. Animated
or moving signs are not permitted within the zoning jurisdiction the city.
Signs shall not be located on the public right-of-way.
      (2)   The area of a permitted sign is calculated by including the entire
face of a sign, including the advertising surface and any framing, trim or
molding, but not including the supporting structure. In the event a sign has
more than one face or advertising surface, the combined area of each face or
advertising surface shall be less than, or equal to the total allowable area of
the sign. Except a sign which is back to back, double faced and directly
opposite each other of the same size, then only one side shall be calculated
for allowable area.
      (3)   The erection or maintenance of any advertising sign, display, or
device which is visible to the traveled way of the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways and the System of Federal-Aid Primary roads of
the state, as defined by the state’s Department of Roads, is hereby prohibited
unless in compliance with the regulations set forth within Rules and
Regulations Relating to the Control of Advertising In Area Adjacent to the
Interstate and Federal-Aid Primary Highways, as amended, adopted and published
by the state’s Department of Roads. A copy of these zoning regulations are on
file in the office of the City Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   Permitted signs in A Agricultural Districts. The specific
regulations in the A Zoning Districts are as follows:
         (a)   Residential premises: one on-premises wall sign not to exceed
two square feet of sign area, non-illuminated and non-reflecting, used to
identify home occupations;
         (b)   Non-residential premises: one on-premises ground sign or wall
sign per frontage not exceeding 32 square feet in area announcing the business
or activity being conducted on the premises. Ground signs shall be spaced a
minimum of 150 feet apart along any street frontage. No ground sign shall
exceed eight feet in height; and
         (c)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads.
      (2)   Permitted signs; R, R-1, R-3 and MH Districts. The specific
regulations in these zoning districts are as follows:
         (a)   Residential premises: one on-premises wall sign, not to exceed
two square feet of sign area, non-illuminated and non-reflecting, used to
identify home occupations;
         (b)   Uses, other than dwellings, permitted in the district: One on-
premises wall sign, not to exceed 32 square feet of sign area per building
facade or, one on-premises ground sign not exceeding 32 square feet in area for
each main building limited to identifying the building or activity being
conducted on the premises. Such signs may be illuminated;
         (c)   Ground signs in this section shall not exceed four feet in
height;
         (d)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads; and
         (e)   Uses, schools and churches, permitted in the district: as a
conditional use authorized by the Planning Commission: one on-premises pole
sign, not exceeding 32 square feet in area and being a maximum height of 25
feet, for the main building. Limited to identifying the building or activity
being conducted on the premises. Such signs may be illuminated.
      (3)   Permitted signs; R-2 Districts (Multiple-Family Districts). The
specific regulations in the R-2 Districts are as follows:
         (a)   All uses: one on-premises wall sign, not to exceed two square
feet of sign area, non-illuminated and non-reflecting, used to identify home
occupations;
         (b)   For multiple-family dwellings:
            1.   One on-premises wall sign or ground sign, not to exceed six
square feet of sign area, non-illuminated and non-reflecting, identifying the
name and use of the building (ground signs not exceeding six feet in height);
and
            2.   One on-premises wall sign or ground sign, not to exceed one
square foot in sign area, non-illuminated and non-reflecting, identifying the
quarters of an on-premises building manager or custodian (ground signs not
exceeding six feet in height).
         (c)   Uses, other than dwellings, permitted in the district: one on-
premises wall sign, not to exceed 32 square feet of sign area per building
facade or, one on-premises ground sign not exceeding 32 square feet in area, or
six feet in height, for each main building limited to identifying the building
or activity being conducted on the premises. Such signs may be illuminated;
         (d)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads; and
         (e)   Uses, schools and churches, permitted in the district as a
conditional use authorized by the Planning Commission: one on-premises pole
signs, not exceeding 32 square feet in area and being a maximum height of 25
feet, for the main building. Limited to identifying the building activity being
conducted on the premises. Such signs may be illuminated.
      (4)   Permitted signs in C-1 and C-3 Commercial Districts. The specific
regulations in the C-1 and C-3 Zoning Districts are as follows:
         (a)   One on-premises pole sign or one on-premises ground sign per
business, per frontage is permitted. Such signs shall be spaced a minimum of 50
feet along any street frontage. In those instances where only a single business
is conducted on the premises and the premises has a frontage along any one
street of 150 feet or more, it may have a maximum of two ground or pole signs
as otherwise permitted in this section on any such frontage with a minimum
spacing of 100 feet. If such sign is located in a required front yard, it shall
not exceed 100 square feet of area, and a pole sign shall have a maximum height
of 25 feet, and a ground sign shall have a maximum height of eight feet. If
such sign is located outside the required front yard, it may have a maximum
area of 100 square feet and a maximum height of 50 feet. If such sign is a
combination of the two signs of over 150 feet frontage, it may be increased to
150 square feet in area and 45 feet in height; provided, it is 50 feet from
other premises;
         (b)   On-premises wall signs are permitted. The sign area of such wall
signs per building facade shall not exceed 30% coverage of the wall face, or a
total of 500 square feet, whichever is lesser. Any marquee sign shall not
exceed three feet in height or the height or vertical thickness of the marquee,
whichever is greater. One pedestrian marquee sign per entrance not exceeding
one foot in height and six square feet in area is permitted;
         (c)   Where more than one business is located on the lot, the on-
premises signs permitted in the required front yard, pursuant to subsection (B)
(4)(a) above may be combined. If the combined sign is located in a required
front yard, it shall not exceed 50 square feet in area. If the combined sign is
a pole sign, it shall have a maximum height of 25 feet, and if the combined
sign is a ground sign, it shall have a maximum height of eight feet. If the
combined sign is located outside the required front yard, it may have a maximum
area of 150 square feet. If the combined sign is a pole sign, it shall be
spaced a minimum of 75 feet from an adjoining premises;
         (d)   No off-premises signs are allowed (billboards);
         (e)   In lieu of sign permitted in subsection (B)(4)(a) above, one on-
premises projecting sign is permitted. Said projecting sign may project from a
building a maximum of six feet six inches and may project into a required front
yard, but it shall not extend above the roof line or top of a cornice wall.
Such sign shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight feet above the walk or
grade below and may project over the public right-of-way when the building is
erected adjacent to the front property line. The maximum area of such sign
shall be 100 square feet;
         (f)   One off-premises directional sign not to exceed 32 square feet
in area and eight feet in height. This sign shall be located at least 150 feet
from any other authorized sign; and
         (g)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads.
      (5)   Permitted signs in the C-2 Central Business District. The specific
regulations in the C-2 Zoning District are as follows:
         (a)   One on-premises pole sign for each business not to exceed 100
square feet in area, nor 35 feet in height is permitted. Where a premises has
more than one street frontage, one additional pole sign is permitted on the
additional frontage under the same size and heights as this section allows;
         (b)   One on-premises ground sign for each business not to exceed 100
square feet in area nor 15 feet in height is permitted. Where a premises has
more than one street frontage, one additional on-premises ground sign is
permitted on the additional frontage. In those instances where a single
business has a frontage along any one street of 150 feet or more, it may have a
maximum of two ground signs as otherwise permitted in this section on any such
frontage with a minimum spacing of 100 feet;
         (c)   In lieu of the signs permitted in subsections (B)(5)(a) or (B)
(5)(b) above, projecting signs may be substituted. Such projecting signs may
project from the building a maximum of six feet six inches and shall not
project above the roof line or top of a cornice wall. Such sign may project
over the public right-of-way when the building is erected adjacent to the front
property line. Such sign shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet above the
walk or grade below and a maximum area of 35 square feet;
         (d)   On-premises wall signs are permitted. The sign area of such
walls signs per building facades shall not exceed 30% coverage of the wall face
or a total of 500 square feet, whichever is lesser. Marquee signs shall not
exceed three feet in height or the height or vertical thickness of the marquee,
whichever is greater, except marquee signs for theaters, which may be up to
four feet in height or the height or vertical thickness of the marquee,
whichever is greater. Those signs projecting above or below the marquee shall
be erected at a 90-degree angle to the building and shall project no more than
six feet six inches with a minimum clearance of eight feet above the cornice
wall or roof of the building. All such marquee signs below the marquee shall
not exceed 12 square feet in area;
         (e)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads; and
         (f)   No off-premises signs are allowed (billboard).
      (6)   Permitted signs in I-1 Districts. The specific regulations in the
I-1 Zoning Districts are as follows.
         (a)   One on-premises wall sign is permitted. The contents of the sign
are to be limited to describing products or services sold or produced on the
premises, or giving the name of the establishment. The sign area of such wall
signs per building shall not exceed 30% coverage of the wall face or a total of
500 square feet, whichever is lesser. Any wall sign attached to the face of a
marquee shall not exceed three feet in height or the thickness of the marquee,
whichever is greater. One pedestrian marquee sign per entrance one foot in
height and six square feet in area is allowed.
         (b)   There may be one ground sign per frontage not exceeding 100
square feet in area or eight feet in height, not located in the required side
or rear yards. If located in the required front yard, such ground signs shall
not be located more than one-half of the distance into said required front
yard.
         (c)   In addition to the sign permitted in subsections (B)(6)(a) and
(B)(6)(b) above, one on-premises pole sign not exceeding 50 square feet in area
and 25 feet in height is permitted.
         (d)   When a building is more than 300 feet from major street
frontage, the permitted wall sign may exceed the 500 square feet limit if the
resulting larger sign does not exceed 10% of the area of the wall in elevation
view or 700 square feet.
         (e)   One directional sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area and
eight feet in height. This sign shall be located at least 150 feet from any
other authorized sign.
         (f)   The city shall not allow signs along any state or federal aid
highways prior to the applicant obtaining a permit from the state’s Department
of Roads.
(2005 Code, § 11-514)
§ 11-515 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls and
hedges may be permitted in any required yard; provided that, no fence, wall or
hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall not exceed the
height of three feet. Although side yards abutting streets will be allowed to
construct a fence four feet in height and must be of open construction,
(chainlink, split rail or other similar material). Fence must be approved by
the Building Official. The fence will be allowed to be placed on the lot lines.
A permit is required before any fence can be constructed.
   (B)   No fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the front
property line. If sidewalk is located within the front yard, no fence shall be
closer than six inches to the sidewalk.
   (C)   Permitted types of fences shall include split rail, chain link, vinyl
and wood. Pallets and other materials not specifically designed or intended for
fence construction are not permitted for use as fence building material. No
component of a fence located in a yard abutting a street shall exceed four feet
in height. No structural member of any fence shall exceed 36 inches in area, as
measured using the horizontal cross-section.
   (D)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard
as identified in the sight triangle of a corner lot as identified in §
11-510 of this article or obstruct the view of alley access or egress.
   (E)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design as
to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of its
construction or by inadequate maintenance.
   (F)   No fence within residential districts, except fences erected upon
public or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public
playgrounds, shall be constructed of a height greater than six feet.
   (G)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the Building
Code and other ordinances.
   (H)   In commercial and industrial districts, maximum height of fences shall
be six feet. Except, when industry standards for certain types of businesses
require fences of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator, at his or her
discretion, may allow greater heights.
   (I)   All fences or parts thereof which are solid shall be constructed so
that all posts, braces, stringers and all other structural members faced to the
interior of the lot or parcel being fenced.
(2005 Code, § 11-515) (Ord. 2358, passed 9-17-2013; Ord. 2393, passed 3-7-2017)
§ 11-516 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABANDONMENT.
         (a)   To cease operation for a period of 60 or more consecutive days;
         (b)   To reduce the affected radiated power of an antenna by 75% for
60 or more consecutive days;
         (c)   To relocate an antenna at a point less than 80% of the height of
an antenna support structure; or
         (d)   To reduce the number of transmissions from an antenna by 75% for
60 or more consecutive days.
      ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designated for telephonic, radio, data,
internet or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves including equipment attached to a tower, pole, light
standard or building for the purpose of providing personal wireless services
including, for example, unlicensed wireless telecommunication services,
wireless telecommunication services utilizing frequencies authorized by the
Federal Communications Commission for “cellular”, “paging”, “enhanced
specialized mobile radio”, “low power mobile radio” and “personal
communications services” telecommunications services, and its attendant base
station.
      ANTENNA HEIGHT.
         (a)   The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure even if said
highest point is an antenna. Measurement of tower height shall include antenna,
base pad and other appurtenances and shall be measured from the finished grade
of the parcel.
         (b)   If the support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average
between the highest and lowest grades of the parcel shall be used in
calculating the ANTENNA HEIGHT.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, light standard, telescoping mast,
tower, tripod or other structure which supports a device used in the
transmitting or receiving of radio, telephonic or television frequency or
television signals.
      CELL SITE. A tract or parcel of land that contains the telecommunications
service facilities including any antenna, tower support structure, accessory
buildings and parking, and may include other uses associated with and ancillary
to telecommunications services.
      FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      GOVERNING AUTHORITY. The governing authority of the city, namely the City
Council.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE and PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES.
Defined in the same manner as in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), as it may be amended
now or in the future.
      TOWER.
         (a)   Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including any antenna support
structure, self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers or monopole towers.
         (b)   The term encompasses personal wireless service facilities, radio
and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers,
cellular telephone towers or personal communications services towers,
alternative tower structures and the like.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the provisions of this
section and shall be permitted in all zones:
      (1)   Industrial processing equipment and scientific or medical equipment
using frequencies regulated by the FCC;
      (2)   Antennas and related equipment no more than three feet in height
that are being stored, shipped or displayed for sale;
      (3)   Radar systems for military and civilian communications and
navigation;
      (4)   Wireless radio utilized for temporary emergency communication in
the event of a disaster;
      (5)   Licensed amateur (ham) radio operations;
      (6)   Satellite dish antennas less than two meters in diameter, including
direct to home satellite services and private television antennas which do not
project more than ten feet above the structure or exceed the height
requirements of the zone secondary use of the property;
      (7)   Routine maintenance or repair of a personal wireless service
facility and related equipment (excluding structure work or changes in height
or dimensions of antennas, towers or buildings); provided that, compliance with
the standards of this chapter are maintained; and
      (8)   Subject to compliance with all other applicable standards of this
chapter, a building permit application need not be filed for emergency repair
or maintenance of a personal wireless service facility until 30 days after the
completion of such emergency activity.
   (C)   Policy statement.
      (1)   The Planning Commission and City Council have received requests to
site towers and antennas. The purpose of this chapter is to provide specific
regulations for the placement, construction and modification of radio,
television and personal wireless service facilities. The provisions of this
section are not intended to and shall not be interpreted to prohibit or to have
the effect of prohibiting the provision of radio, television and personal
wireless services, nor shall the provisions of this section be applied in such
a manner as to unreasonably discriminate between providers of functionally
equivalent services.
      (2)   The goals of this section are to:
         (a)   Encourage the location of towers on public property and in non-
residential areas and to minimize the total number of towers throughout the
city;
         (b)   Encourage strongly the joint use of new existing tower sites;
         (c)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the city is minimal;
         (d)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a
way that minimizes the visual impact of the towers and antennas; and
         (e)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications
services to provide such services throughout the city quickly, effectively and
efficiently.
      (3)   Accordingly, the City Council finds that the promulgation of this
chapter is warranted and necessary:
         (a)   To manage the location of towers and antennas in the city and
provide for the use of public property for the placement thereof;
         (b)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential
adverse impacts of towers and falling ice;
         (c)   To minimize visual and aesthetic impacts of towers through
minimal use of towers, careful design, siting, landscape screening and
innovative camouflaging techniques;
         (d)   To accommodate the growing need for towers;
         (e)   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of existing and
new towers as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-
use towers and to reduce the number of such structures needed in the future;
         (f)   To consider the public health and safety of towers to the extent
allowed by the Telecommunications Act of 1996; and
         (g)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties through
engineering and proper siting of antenna support structure.
      (4)   All new antennas shall comply with this section after the date of
passage.
      (5)   All towers existing on the date of passage of this section shall be
allowed to continue their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance
shall be permitted on such existing towers. New construction other than routine
maintenance on existing towers shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
   (D)   Industry site selection criteria.
      (1)   In siting a new tower or antenna site, it is anticipated that the
industry will propose locations that are technically compatible with the
established network. A general area is to be identified based upon engineering
constraints and the desired area of service.
      (2)   Specific locations within that general area will be evaluated using
the following criteria which are not listed in order of priority:
         (a)   Topography as it relates to line of sight transmissions for
optimum efficiency;
         (b)   Availability of road access;
         (c)   Availability of electric powers;
         (d)   Availability of land-based telephone lines or microwave link
capability;
         (e)   Leasable lands and landlords who want facilities to be located
on their properties consistent with zoning regulations;
         (f)   Screening potential of existing vegetation, structures and
topographic features;
         (g)   Zoning that will allow personal wireless service facilities;
         (h)   Compatibility with adjacent land uses;
         (i)   The fewest number of sites to cover the desired area;
         (j)   The greatest amount of coverage, consistent with physical
requirements;
         (k)   Opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact; and
         (l)   Availability of suitable existing structures for antenna
mounting.
   (E)   City site selection criteria.
      (1)   As a fundamental element of this chapter, the telecommunications
company proposing to construct an antenna support structure, or mount an
antenna on an existing structure, is required to demonstrate, using
technological evidence, that the antenna must go where it is proposed on order
to satisfy its function in the company’s grid system. Further, the company must
demonstrate by technological evidence that the height requested is the minimum
height necessary.
      (2)   Applications for necessary permits will only be processed when the
applicant demonstrates that it is either an FCC licensed telecommunications
provider or has in place necessary agreements with an FCC licensed
telecommunications provider for use or lease of the support structure.
      (3)   Personal wireless service facilities should be located and designed
to minimize any impacts on residential property values. Sites should be placed
in location where the existing topography, vegetation, buildings or other
structures provide the greatest amount of screening.
      (4)   Location and design of sites in all districts should consider the
impact of the site on the surrounding neighborhood and the visual impact within
the zone district. In residential districts and residential land use areas, the
minimum lot size for towers shall be three acres.
   (F)   Priorities.
      (1)   The following establishes the order of priorities for locating new
communications facilities:
         (a)   Place antennas and towers on public property (excluding prairie,
conservation or wildlife areas) subject to zoning height restrictions
requirements of this section;
         (b)   Place antennas on appropriate existing structures, such as
buildings, towers, water towers, and smokestacks in other zoned districts;
         (c)   Place antennas and towers in districts zoned District A,
Agricultural District, District I, Light Industrial District, which do not
adjoin or adversely impact residential neighborhoods;
         (d)   Place antennas and towers on other private non-residential
property in districts zoned C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District; C-2, Central
Business District; and C-3, Service Commercial District;
         (e)   Place antennas and towers on multi-family residential structures
exceeding 30 feet in height in districts zoned R-2, Multiple-Family Residential
District; and R-3, One Family Transitional District; and
         (f)   Place antennas and towers in District R-1, One-Family
Residential District and R - Large Lot Residential District:
            1.   Only if locations for which a need has been demonstrated are
not available on existing structures or in non-residential districts; and
            2.   Only on or in existing churches, parks (as provided in
subsection (G) below), schools, utility facilities or other appropriate public
facilities.
      (2)   An applicant for a new antenna support structure to be located in a
residential zoning district shall demonstrate that a diligent effort has been
made to locate the proposed communications facilities on a government
structure, a private institutional structure or other appropriate existing
structures within a non-residential zoning district, and that due to valid
considerations including physical constraints, or technological feasibility, no
appropriate location is available. The telecommunications company is required
to demonstrate that it contacted the owners of structures in excess of 30 feet
within a one-quarter mile radius of the site proposed, asked for permission to
install the antenna on those structures, and was denied for reasons other than
economic ones. The information submitted by the applicant shall included a map
of the area to be served by the tower, its relationship to other antenna sited
in the applicant’s network and an evaluation of existing buildings taller than
30 feet, towers and water tanks within one-quarter mile of the proposed tower.
   (G)   Use of city property.
      (1)   Priority of users. Priority for the use of city-owned land for
wireless telecommunication antennas and towers will be given to the following
entities in descending order:
         (a)   The city;
         (b)   Public safety agencies, including law enforcement, fire and
ambulance services, which are not part of the city and private entities with a
public safety agreement with the city;
         (c)   Other governmental agencies, for uses which are not related to
public safety; and
         (d)   Entities providing licensed, and unlicensed (where permitted by
law), commercial wireless telecommunication services, cellular, personal
communication services (PCS), radio and television services, specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), data,
Internet, paging and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
      (2)   Minimum requirements. The placement of wireless telecommunication
antennas or towers on city-owned property must comply with the following
requirements.
         (a)   The antennas or tower will not interfere with the purpose for
which the city-owned property is intended.
         (b)   The antennas or tower will have no significant adverse impact on
surrounding private property.
         (c)   The applicant is willing to obtain adequate liability insurance
and commit to a lease agreement which includes equitable compensation for the
use of public land and other necessary provisions and safeguards. The fees
shall be established by the City Council after considering comparable rates in
other cities, potential expenses, risks to the city and other appropriate
factors.
         (d)   The applicant will submit a letter of credit, performance bond
or other security acceptable to the city to cover the costs of antenna or tower
removal.
         (e)   The antennas or tower will not interfere with other users who
have a higher priority as discussed herein.
         (f)   The applicant must reimburse the city for any costs which it
incurs because of the presence of the applicant’s antennas or tower.
         (g)   The user must obtain all necessary land use approvals.
         (h)   The applicant will cooperate with the city’s objective to
promote co-locations and thus limit the number of separate antenna sites
requested.
      (3)   Special requirements. The use of certain city-owned property, such
as water tower sites and parks, for wireless telecommunication antennas or
towers brings with it special concerns due to the unique nature of these sites.
The placement of wireless telecommunication antennas or towers on these special
city-owned sites will be allowed only when the following additional
requirements are met.
         (a)   Water tower or reservoir sites. The city’s water towers and
reservoirs represent a large public investment in water pressure stabilization
and peak capacity reserves. Protection of the quality of the city’s water
supply is of prime importance to the city. As access to the city’s water
storage systems increases, so too increased is the potential for contamination
of the public water supply. For these reasons, the placement of wireless
telecommunication antennas or towers on water tower or reservoir sites will be
allowed only when the city is fully satisfied that the following additional
requirements are met:
            1.   The applicant’s access to the facility will not increase the
risks of contamination to the city’s water supply;
            2.   There is sufficient room on the structure and/or on the
grounds to accommodate the applicant’s facility;
            3.   The presence of the facility will not increase the water tower
or reservoir maintenance cost to the city; and
            4.   The presence of the facility will not be harmful to the health
of workers maintaining the water tower and reservoir.
         (b)   Parks. The presence of certain personal wireless service
facilities, antennas or towers represent a potential conflict with the purpose
of some parks. In no case shall towers or antennas be allowed in designated
prairie or other conservation or wildlife area unless they are to be installed
in areas which currently contain tower facilities or antennas, and in no case
shall towers or antennas be allowed in areas without road access to the base of
the tower, antenna support structure or facilities. Personal wireless
facilities, antenna support structure, antennas or towers will be considered
only in the following parks after the recommendation of the Planning Commission
and approved of the City Council:
            1.   Public parks of a sufficient scale and character that are
adjacent to an existing commercial or industrial use;
            2.   Commercial recreation areas and major play fields; and
            3.   Park maintenance facilities.
   (H)   Co-location.
      (1)   To minimize adverse visual impacts associated with the
proliferation of towers, co-location of antennas by more than one carrier on
existing or new towers and location of such antennas on public property shall
take precedence over the construction of new single-use towers on public
property as follows.
         (a)   Proposed antennas may, and are encouraged to, co-locate onto
existing towers. Even where such co-location is accomplished in a manner
consistent with the policy, site criteria and landscape/screening provisions
contained in this section, new or additional conditional use approval is
required, and any other permit, license, lease or franchise requirements also
must be satisfied.
         (b)   The city may deny the application to construct a new tower if
the applicant has not shown by substantial evidence that it has made a good
faith effort to mount the antenna on an existing structure and/or public
property.
         (c)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures
needed in the city in the future, any new proposed support structure shall be
designed to accommodate antenna for more than one user, unless the applicant
demonstrates why such design is not feasible for economic, technical or
physical reasons.
         (d)   Unless co-location has been demonstrated to be infeasible, the
site plan shall delineate an area near the base of the tower to be used for the
placement of additional equipment buildings for other users. The site plan for
towers in excess of 100 feet must propose space for two comparable tower users
while the site plan for towers under 100 feet must propose space for one
comparable tower user.
         (e)   To provide further incentive for co-location as a primary
option, an existing tower may be modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
co-location of an additional antenna; provided, the additional antenna shall be
consistent with the use and aesthetics as that on the existing tower. This is
permitted by conditional use permit for existing towers in all zoning
districts, subject to the following criteria being met.
            1.   Height. An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a
taller height, to accommodate the co-location of additional antenna, so long as
it is done in accordance herewith.
            2.   Onsite location. A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate
the co-location of an additional antenna may be moved on-site within 50 feet of
its existing location so long as it remains within the same zone and complies
with the other provisions of this chapter. After the tower is rebuilt to
accommodate co-location, only one tower may remain on site.
            3.   Signage prohibited. Except as set forth herein, no signs,
banners or similar devices or materials may be attached to the towers, antenna
support structure or antennas.
      (2)   Subject to the priorities as set forth herein, to minimize adverse
visual impacts associated with the proliferation of towers, co-location of
antennas by more than one carrier on existing or new towers and location of
such antennas on commercial, business, industrial or residential property shall
take precedence over the construction of new single-use towers on commercial,
business, industrial or residential property, as follows.
         (a)   Proposed antennas may, and are encouraged to, co-locate onto
existing towers. Even where such co-location is accomplished in a manner
consistent with the policy, site criteria and landscape/screening provisions
contained in this chapter, new or additional conditional use approval is
required, and any other permit, license, lease or franchise requirements also
must be satisfied.
         (b)   The city may deny the application to construct a new tower if
the applicant has not shown by substantial evidence that it has made a good
faith effort to mount the antenna on an existing structure.
         (c)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures
needed in the city in the future, any new proposed support structure shall be
designed to accommodate antenna for more than one user, unless the applicant
demonstrates why such design is not feasible for economic, technical or
physical reasons.
         (d)   Unless co-location has been demonstrated to be infeasible, the
site plan shall delineate an area near the base of the tower to be used for the
placement of additional equipment buildings for other users. The site plan for
towers in excess of 100 feet must propose space for two comparable tower users
while the site plan for towers under 100 feet must propose space for one
comparable tower user.
         (e)   To provide further incentive for co-location as a primary
option, an existing tower may be modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
co-location of additional antenna; provided, the additional antenna shall be
consistent with the use and aesthetics as that on the existing tower. This is
permitted by conditional use permit for existing towers in all zoning
districts, subject to the following criteria being met.
            1.   Height. An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a
taller height, to accommodate the co-location of additional antenna, so long as
it is done in accordance with subsections (H)(2)(d) and (H)(2)(e) above.
            2.   Onsite location. A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate
the co-location of an additional antenna may be moved onsite within 50 feet of
its existing location so long as it remains within the same zone and complies
with the other provisions of this section. After the tower is rebuilt to
accommodate co-location, only one tower may remain on site.
            3.   Signage prohibited. Except as set forth herein, no signs,
banners or similar devices or materials may be attached to the towers, antenna
support structure or antennas.
   (I)   Design criteria.
      (1)   New towers and antenna support structure shall be designed to
accommodate co-location for antenna for more than one user throughout the city
in zoning districts as permitted by this section, unless the applicant
demonstrates why such design is not feasible for economic, technical or
physical reasons.
      (2)   Facilities should be architecturally compatible with the
surrounding buildings and land uses in the zoning district or otherwise
integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
         (a)   Setback. Tower setbacks shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Unless there
are unusual geographic limitations or other public policy considerations as
determined in the city’s sole discretion, in residential districts and
residential land use areas, where permitted, towers shall be set back from all
property lines a distance equal to 300% of tower height as measured from ground
level. Except as provided herein, and except for unusual geographic limitations
or other public policy considerations, as determined in the city’s sole
discretion, towers shall comply with the minimum setback requirements of the
area in which they are located in all other zoning districts.
         (b)   Color. Towers shall have a color generally matching the
surroundings or background that minimizes their visibility, unless a different
color is required by the FCC of FAA.
         (c)   Lights, signals and signs. No signals, lights or signs shall be
permitted on towers unless required by the FCC or the FAA. Should lighting be
required, at the time of construction of the tower in cases where there are
residential users located within a distance which is 300% of the height of the
tower from the tower, then dual mode lighting shall be requested from the FAA.
         (d)   Equipment structures. Ground level equipment and buildings and
the tower base shall be screened from public streets and residentially zoned
properties. The standards for the equipment buildings are as follows.
            1.   The maximum floor area is 350 square feet per provider and the
maximum height is 12 feet. Depending upon the aesthetics and other issues, the
city, in its sole discretion, may approve multiple equipment structures or one
or more larger structures.
            2.   Ground level buildings shall be screened from adjacent
properties by landscape plantings, fencing and other appropriate means, as
specified herein or in the city code.
            3.   Equipment buildings mounted on a roof and other roof mounted
equipment shall have a finish similar to the exterior building walls. Equipment
for a roof-mounted antenna may also be located within the building on which the
antenna is mounted.
            4.   In instances where equipment structures are located in
residential zones or in close proximity to public rights-of-way, equipment
structures shall comply with setback requirements and shall be designed so as
to conform in appearance with nearby structures.
            5.   Equipment buildings, antenna and related equipment shall
occupy no more than 25% of the total roof area of a building, which may vary in
the city’s sole discretion if co-location and an adequate penthouse-type
structure are used.
            6.   Antenna or equipment buildings not meeting these standards
require a special exception in addition to the conditional use permit. The
special exception must be approved on a comprehensive sketch plan or final
development plan, as applicable.
      (3)   Federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the
federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such
standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this section shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations in accordance with the
compliance deadlines/requirements of such standards and regulations. Failure to
bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owner’s expense.
      (4)   Building codes; safety standards. To ensure the structural
integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable city building codes and the
applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association (“EIA”), as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
city concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into
compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into
compliance within said 30 days, the city may remove such tower at the owner’s
expense.
      (5)   Structural design. Towers shall be constructed to the EIA
standards, which may be amended from time to time, and all applicable
construction/building codes. Further, any improvements and/or additions to
existing towers shall require submission of site plans sealed and verified by a
professional engineer which demonstrate compliance standards and all other good
industry practices in effect at the time of said improvement or said plans
shall be submitted to and reviewed at the time building permits are with the
EIA addition requested.
      (6)   Fencing. A well-constructed masonry or stone wall, or chain link in
an industrial zone, not less than eight feet in height from finished grade
shall be provided around each tower. Access to the tower and equipment
structures shall be through a locked gate.
      (7)   Antenna height. The applicant shall demonstrate that the antenna is
the minimum height required to function satisfactorily. No antenna that is
taller than this minimum height shall be approved.
      (8)   Antenna support structure safety. The applicant shall demonstrate
that the proposed antenna and support structure are safe and the surrounding
areas also will not be negatively affected by interference. All support
structures shall be fitted with anti-climbing devices, as approved by the
manufacturers.
      (9)   Required parking. If the cell site is fully automated, adequate
parking shall be required for maintenance workers. If the site is not
automated, arrangements for adequate off-street parking shall be made and
documentation thereof provided to the city. Security fencing should be colored
or should be of a design which blends into the character of the existing
environment.
      (10)   Antenna criteria. Antenna on or above a structure shall be subject
to the following.
         (a)   The antenna must be architecturally compatible with the building
and wall on which it is mounted and designed and located so as to minimize any
adverse aesthetic impact.
         (b)   The antenna shall be mounted on a wall of an existing building
in a configuration as flush to the wall as technically possible and shall not
project above the wall on which it is mounted unless, for technical reasons,
the antenna needs to projects above the roof line. In no event shall an antenna
project more than ten feet above the roofline.
         (c)   The antenna shall be constructed, painted or fully screened to
match as closely as possible the color and texture of the building and wall on
which it is mounted.
         (d)   The antenna may be attached to an existing conforming mechanical
equipment enclosure which projects above the roof of the building, but may not
project any higher than the enclosure.
         (e)   If an accessory equipment shelter is present, it must blend with
the surrounding buildings in architectural character and color.
         (f)   The antenna, facilities and accessory equipment shelter must be
architecturally and visually (color, size, bulk) compatible with surrounding
existing buildings, structures, vegetation and/or uses or those likely to exist
under the terms of the underlying zoning. Such antenna, facilities and
accessory equipment shelter will be considered architecturally and visually
compatible if they are camouflaged to disguise the facility.
         (g)   Site location and development shall preserve the pre-existing
character of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation should be
preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of the site
should be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact
of the site on the surrounding area. The effectiveness of visual mitigation
techniques must be evaluated by city, in city’s sole discretion, taking into
consideration the site as built.
         (h)   For installations on buildings greater than 30 feet in height,
see other applicable provisions of this section. In addition to the other
requirements of this section, on buildings 30 feet or less in height, the
antenna may be mounted on the roof if the following additional criteria are
satisfied.
            1.   The city finds that it is not technically possible or
aesthetically desirable to mount the antenna on a wall.
            2.   No portion of the antenna or base station causes the height of
the building to exceed the limitations set forth herein.
            3.   The antenna or antennas and related base stations cover no
more than an aggregate total of 25% of the roof area of a building, which may
vary in the city’s sole discretion, if co-location and an adequate penthouse-
type structure are used.
            4.   Roof-mounted antenna and related base stations must be
appropriately camouflaged or substantially screened from view by materials that
are consistent and compatible with the design, color and materials of the
building.
            5.   No portion of the antenna may exceed ten feet above the height
of the existing building.
         (i)   If a proposed antenna is located on a building or a lot subject
to a site review, conditional use approval is still required prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
         (j)   No antenna shall be permitted on property designed as an
individual landmark or as a part of a historic district, unless such antenna
has been approved in accordance with the city code.
         (k)   No antenna owner or lessee or officer or employee thereof shall
fail to cooperate in good faith to accommodate other competitors in their
attempts to use the same tower or building for other antennas. If a dispute
arises about the feasibility of accommodating another competitor, the city may
require a third-party technical study, at the expense of either or both
parties, to resolve the dispute.
         (l)   No antenna owner or lessee shall fail to assure that the antenna
complies at all times with the then current applicable EIA or FCC standards, or
other applicable federal standards, whichever standard is more stringent. After
installation, but prior to putting the antenna is service, each antenna owner
shall provide a notarized statement signed by a qualified engineer to that
effect.
         (m)   No antenna shall cause localized interference with the reception
of any other communication signals including, but not limited to, public safety
signals and television and radio broadcast signals.
         (n)   No person shall locate an antenna or tower for wireless
communications services upon any lot or parcel, except as provided in this
section.
   (J)   Other permitted uses. Applications for antenna for personal wireless
communications services and associated unmanned equipment buildings may be
reviewed so long as the requirements of this section and the following
standards are met.
      (1)   In addition to the other requirements in this section, where the
antenna is attached to the roof or sides of a building, an existing tower, a
water tank or a similar structure.
      (2)   The following antennas are permitted under the provisions of this
section:
         (a)   Omnidirectional or whip antenna no more than seven inches in
diameter and extending no more than ten feet above the structure to which they
are attached; or
         (b)   Panel or similar antenna no more than two feet wide and six feet
long, extending above the structure to which they are attached by no more than
ten feet.
      (3)   Antenna and antenna array not on publicly-owned property shall not
extend more than ten feet above the highest point of the structure on which it
is mounted. The antenna, antenna array and its support structure shall be
mounted so as to blend with the structure to which the antenna is attached. The
antenna and its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force
of 100 mph without the use of supporting guy wires, in all zones. The antenna,
antenna array and its support structure shall be a color that blends with the
structure on which they are mounted.
      (4)   Unless there are unusual geographic limitations or other public
policy considerations, as determined in the city’s sole discretion, no such
antenna, antenna array or its support structure shall be erected or maintained
closer to any street than the minimum setback for the zone in which it is
located.
      (5)   No guy or other support wires shall be used in connection with such
antenna, antenna array or its support structure except upon approval of a
conditional use permit.
   (K)   Inspection requirements. Each year after a facility becomes
operational, the facility operator shall conduct a safety inspection in
accordance with the EIA and FCC standards and, within 60 days of the
inspection, file a report with the City Clerk, Submission of a FCC required,
and duly filed, safety inspection report, or the facility operator’s
maintenance reports for the prior 12 months in the event no FCC report is
required for such year, to the City Clerk shall satisfy the requirements of
this section.
   (L)   Landscaping/screening.
      (1)   Landscaping. Landscaping, as described herein, shall be required to
screen as much of the support structure as possible, the fence surrounding both
the support structure and any other ground level features (such as a building),
and in general soften the appearance of the cell site. The city may permit any
combination of existing vegetation, topography, walls, decorative fences or
other features instead of landscaping, if they achieve the same degree of
screening as the required landscaping. If the antenna is mounted on an existing
building, and other equipment is housed inside an existing structure,
landscaping shall not be required.
      (2)   Screening. The visual impacts of a tower shall be mitigated through
landscaping or other screening materials at the base of the tower and ancillary
structures. The following landscaping and buffering of towers shall be required
around the perimeter of the tower and accessory structures, except that the
standards may be waived by the city for those sides of the proposed tower that
are located adjacent to undevelopable lands and lands not in public view.
Landscaping shall be installed on the outside of fences. Further, existing
vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent practicable and may be used
as a substitute for or in supplement towards meeting landscaping requirements:
         (a)   A row of evergreen trees a minimum of ten feet tall at planting
a maximum of six feet apart, or a row of deciduous or coniferous trees a
minimum of ten feet tall at planting a maximum of 15 to 25 feet apart shall be
planted around the perimeter of the fence; or
         (b)   A continuous hedge at least 36 inches high, or five-gallon size
shrub, at planting capable of growing to at least 48 inches in height within 18
months shall be planted around the perimeter of the tower and accessory
structures.
      (3)   Maintenance. In the event that landscaping is not maintained at the
required level, the city, after giving 30 days’ advance written notice, may
maintain or do the landscaping and bill both the owner and lessee for such
costs until such cost are paid in full.
   (M)   Non-use/abandonment.
      (1)   In the event the use of any tower or antenna has been discontinued
for a period of 60 consecutive days, the tower or antenna shall be deemed to be
abandoned. Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the city
which shall have the right to request documentation and/or affidavits from the
tower or antenna owner/operator regarding the issue of tower or antenna usage.
Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator of the tower or antenna, or the owner
of property upon which such facility is located, shall have an additional 60
days within which to:
         (a)   Reactivate the use of the tower or antenna or transfer the tower
or antenna to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the tower or
antenna;
         (b)   In the event that abandonment, as defined in this section,
occurs due to relocation of an antenna at a lower point on the antenna support
structure, reduction in the affected radiated power of the antenna or reduction
in the number of transmissions from the antennas, the operator of the tower
shall have six months from the date of effective abandonment to co-locate
another service on the tower. If another service provider is not added to the
tower, then the operator shall promptly dismantle and remove that portion of
the tower which exceeds the minimum height required to function satisfactorily.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, changes which are made to personal wireless
facilities which do not diminish their essential role in providing a total
system shall not constitute abandonment; however, in the event that there is a
physical reduction in height of substantially all of the providers’ towers in
the city, then all of such providers’ towers within the city shall similarly be
reduced in height; or
         (c)   Dismantle and remove the tower or antenna. If such tower or
antenna is not removed within said 60 days from the date of abandonment, the
city may remove such tower or antenna, in accordance with applicable law, at
the facility owner’s and/or property owner’s expense. If there are two or more
users of a single tower or antenna, then this provision shall not become
effective until all users cease using the tower or antenna.
      (2)   At the earlier of 60 days from the date of abandonment without
reactivation or upon completion of dismantling and removal, city approval for
the tower or antenna shall automatically expire.
   (N)   Application requirements.
      (1)   In the course of reviewing any request for any approval required
under this chapter made by an applicant to provide personal wireless service or
to install personal wireless service facilities, the Planning Commission or the
City Council, as the case may be, shall act within a reasonable period of time
after the request is duly filed with the city, taking into account the nature
and scope of the request, and any decision to deny such a request shall be in
writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
All applicants who wish to locate a wireless telecommunication antenna or tower
in the city must submit to the city’s Zoning Administrator a completed
application and detailed plan that complies with the submittal requirements of
this section, the Zoning Code and other regulations and ordinances of the city
along with other pertinent information requested by the city.
      (2)   Application submission for conditional use, variance and building
permit requests may utilize any combination of site plans, surveys, maps,
technical reports or written narratives necessary to convey the following
information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning, adjacent roadway, proposed means of access, setbacks from property
lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other proposed
structures;
         (b)   A current map and aerial as provided by the County Assessor’s
office showing the location of the proposed tower;
         (c)   Legal description of the parcel, if applicable;
         (d)   Approximate distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties and unplatted
residentially zoned properties;
         (e)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
         (f)   Method of fencing, finished color and, if applicable, the method
of camouflage and illumination;
         (g)   A notarized letter signed by the applicant stating the tower
will comply with all EIA standards and all applicable federal and state laws
and regulations and the city code including specifically FAA regulations;
         (h)   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the
tower will accommodate co-location of additional antenna for future users;
         (i)   A notarized letter signed by the applicant stating that the
antenna usage will not interfere with other adjacent or neighboring
transmission or reception functions;
         (j)   The telecommunications company must demonstrate that it is
licensed by the FCC if required to be licensed under FCC regulations;
         (k)   The applicant, if not the telecommunication service provider,
shall submit proof of lease agreements with an FCC licensed telecommunications
provider if such telecommunications provider is required to be licensed by the
FCC;
         (l)   A full site plan shall be required for all cell sites, showing
the antenna, antenna support structure, building, fencing, buffering, access
and all other items required in this section. The site plan shall not be
required if the antenna is to be mounted on an existing structure;
         (m)   At the time of site selection, the applicant should demonstrate
how the proposed site fits into its overall network within the city; and
         (n)   This chapter shall apply to all applications which were filed
prior to the effective date hereof and which have not been approved by the City
Council as of the effective date of this chapter and to applications filed
thereafter.
   (O)   Third party review. The telecommunications provider use various
methodologies and analysis tools, including geographically-based computer
software, to determine the specific technical parameters of telecommunications
services and facilities, such as expected coverage area, antenna configuration,
topographic constraints that affect signal paths and the like. In certain
instances, there may be a need for expert review by a third party of the
technical data submitted by the telecommunications provider. The City Council
or the Planning Commission may require such a technical review, to be paid for
by the applicant for the telecommunications services or facilities. The
selection of the third party expert shall be by mutual agreement between the
applicant and city, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld by either
party. The expert review is intended to be a site-specific review of technical
aspects of the telecommunications services or facilities and other matters as
described herein with respect to potential interference issues, and not a
subjective review of the site selection. Such a review should address the
accuracy and completeness of the technical data, whether the analysis
techniques and methodologies are legitimate, the validity of the conclusions
and any specific technical issues outlined by the City Council, Planning
Commission, city staff or interested parties. Based on the results of the third
party review, the city may require changes to the application for the
telecommunications services, facilities and other matters as described herein
that comply with the recommendations of the expert.
   (P)   Conditional use permit requirement. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, in all instances a conditional use permit must be
obtained with the affirmative vote of City Council before any radio,
television, personal wireless services or facilities may be constructed or
operated within the city. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
and make recommendation to the Council, the Council shall hold a public hearing
before making the final decision. Both hearings shall be advertised ten days
prior to the hearing.
   (Q)   Termination.
      (1)   The City Council may, subject to applicable law, rescind any
previously granted or pending city approval or lease necessary for the
constructions, installation or operation of telecommunications facilities if it
determines that any one of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   A potential user with a higher priority cannot find another
adequate location and the potential use would be incompatible with the existing
use;
         (b)   A user’s frequency broadcast unreasonably interferes with other
users of higher priority of use as set forth in subsection (G) above,
regardless of whether or not this interference was adequately predicted in the
technical analysis; or
         (c)   A user violates any of the standards in this chapter or the
conditions of city approval, lease provisions with the city or other terms of
authorization by the city.
      (2)   Before taking action, the city will provide notice to the user of
the intended termination and the reasons for it, and provide a reasonable
opportunity for the user to either cure the alleged interference, violation or
condition or address the City Council regarding the proposed action.
      (3)   This procedure need not be followed in emergency situations.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above, the City Council reserves the right to
deny, for any reason, the use of any or all city-owned property by any one or
all applicants. Such denial shall be in writing and support by substantial
evidence contained in a written record.
   (R)   Violations; penalties; city remedies.
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall
be punished in accordance with the provisions of §
11-1008 of this city code.
      (2)   Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation is committed, continued or
permitted by any such person.
      (3)   In addition to receiving any fines or other monetary remuneration,
the city shall have the right to seek injunctive relief for any and all
violations of this chapter and all other remedies provided at law or in equity.
      (4)   Before taking action, the city will provide notice to the user of
the alleged violation, and provide a reasonable opportunity for the user to
either cease or cure the alleged violation or address the City Council
regarding such alleged violation. This procedure need not be followed in
emergency situations.
   (S)   Conflict. To the extent that any provision or provisions of this
section are inconsistent or in conflict with any other provision of the city
code, Zoning Code or any ordinance or regulation of the city, the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed to control. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number.
(2005 Code, § 11-516)
§ 11-517 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WES).
   Listed below are guidelines when an applicant requests to install a wind
energy system within jurisdiction of the city.
   (A)   The distance from all lot lines, any buildings, overhead power lines
or to any additional tower support base of a WES shall be equal to the total
height of the proposed tower from the ground to the highest moving or
stationary point of the WES plus 20%.
   (B)   A conditional use permit is required in all applications and must be
from the owner of the property where the WES is to be installed.
   (C)   The maximum allowable height for the WES shall not exceed 150 total
feet to the highest moving or stationary point.
   (D)   The WES shall not cause any interference with radio, television,
computer or other electronic operations on adjacent properties.
   (E)   A fence six feet high with a locking gate shall be placed around the
base of the tower or the tower climbing apparatus shall begin no less than 12
feet from the ground.
   (F)   Data pertaining to the WES shall be filed with the application. The
data shall include turbine safety and acceptance results from tests conducted
by a qualified individual or organization based upon standards set by the U.S.
Department of Energy (DOE), Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), Utility
Wind Turbine Verification Program (UWTVP), the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) and the National Electric Code (NEC).
   (G)   The maximum decibels allowed from the WES shall be 40 decibels,
measured at the nearest property line.
   (H)   The shadows that may arise from the WES shall not cast on adjacent
property owners dwellings due to the possible strobe light affect.
   (I)   The WES shall be installed by an electrician that is licensed with the
city and the installation shall comply with the National Electric Code (NEC),
National Electric Safety Code (NESC) and the city services rules. Also written
authorization from the City Electric Department and the wholesale electrical
supplier to the city will be required.
(Ord. 2305, passed 8-18-2009)
ARTICLE 6: NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
11-601   Continuation of non-conforming use or structure
   
11-602   Non-conforming structure
   
11-603   Discontinuance of a non-conforming use
   
11-604   Termination of certain non-conforming uses
   
11-605   Change of non-conforming use
   
11-606   Destruction of a non-conforming use
   
11-607   Completion of building
   
11-608   District changes
§ 11-601 CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §§
11-601 through
11-605 of this article, a non-conforming structure or use may be continued and
maintained in reasonable repair but shall not be altered or extended unless
authorization for a variance is obtained pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The extension of a non-conforming use to a portion of a structure
which was arranged or designed for the non-conforming use at the time of
passage of this chapter is not an extension of a non- conforming use.
   (C)   A complete record of the location, value, nature and extent of all
non-conforming uses shall be made and kept by the Planning Commission.
(2005 Code, § 11-601)
§ 11-602 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   A structure conforming as to use, but non-conforming as to height, setback
or coverage, may be altered or extended providing the alteration or extension
does not result in a violation of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-602)
§ 11-603 DISCONTINUANCE OF A NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   If a non-conforming use involving a structure is discontinued from use
for a period of one year, further use of the property shall be for a conforming
use.
   (B)   If a non-conforming use not involving a structure is discontinued for
a period of six months, further use of the property shall be for a conforming
use.
(2005 Code, § 11-603)
§ 11-604 TERMINATION OF CERTAIN NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A non-conforming use not involving a structure or one involving a
structure having an assessed value of less than $250 shall be discontinued
within two years from the date of passage of this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any automobile
wrecking yard or other junk yard in existence in any residential district at
the date of enactment of this chapter shall at the expiration of three years
from such date become a prohibited and unlawful use and shall be discontinued.
   (C)   A use which is non-conforming with respect to provision for screening
shall provide screening within a period of five years from the date of passage
of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-604)
§ 11-605 CHANGE OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   If a non-conforming use is changed, it shall be changed to a use conforming
to the regulations of the district and, after change, it shall not be changed
back again to the original non-conforming use.
(2005 Code, § 11-605)
§ 11-606 DESTRUCTION OF A NON-CONFORMING USE.
   If a non-conforming structure or a structure containing a non-conforming use
is destroyed by fire, explosion or act of God to an extent exceeding 50% of the
cost of replacement of the building using new materials, a future structure or
use on the property shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-606)
§ 11-607 COMPLETION OF BUILDING.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction, alteration or designated use of a building for which a building
permit has been issued and construction work has commenced prior to the
adoption of this chapter; except that, if the designated use will be non-
conforming it shall, for the purpose of §
11-603 of this article, be a discontinued use if not in operation within two
years of the date of issuance of the building permit.
(2005 Code, § 11-607)
§ 11-608 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another district of a different classification, this
article shall also apply to any non-conforming uses existing therein.
(2005 Code, § 11-608)
ARTICLE 7: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
11-701   Compliance
   
11-702   Application
   
11-703   Submission of the preliminary plan
   
11-704   Explanatory information with preliminary plan
   
11-705   Public hearing
   
11-706   Planning Commission action
   
11-707   Preliminary review of proposal
   
11-708   Final plan
   
11-709   Information on final plan
   
11-710   Planning Commission action on final plan
   
11-711   Filing and recording
   
11-712   Permit
   
11-713   Changes in plan
   
11-714   Time limit
   
11-715   Development standards
   
11-716   Classes of planned development
   
11-717   Residential
   
11-718   Commercial
   
11-719   Industrial
§ 11-701 COMPLIANCE.
   In view of the trend toward the development of group houses, planned
neighborhoods, shopping centers or other planned developments intended for
greater convenience or utility, which may necessitate variations from existing
regulations, such variations may be permitted; provided, the development plan
meets all the requirements specified in this article.
(2005 Code, § 11-701)
§ 11-702 APPLICATION.
   The owner or owners of any continuous tract of land of not less than five
acres, unless otherwise permitted by the Planning Commission, may submit an
application to the Planning Commission for planned group development.
(2005 Code, § 11-702)
§ 11-703 SUBMISSION OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The developer(s) shall prepare a preliminary plan together with improvement
plans and other supplementary material as may be required to indicate the
general program and objectives of the project, and shall submit 18 copies of
the preliminary plan to the Zoning Administrator at least ten days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which consideration of the plan is desired.
   (A)   Scale. The preliminary plan shall be drawn on a sheet 18 inches by 24
inches or a multiple thereof at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or, for
areas over 100 acres, one inch equals 200 feet.
   (B)   General information. The following general information shall be shown
on the preliminary plan:
      (1)   Proposed name of the planned development. This name must not
duplicate, nor resemble, the name of an existing development, so as to cause
confusion;
      (2)   Date, north point, and scale of drawing;
      (3)   Appropriate identification clearly stating the map is a preliminary
plan;
      (4)   Location of the planned development sufficient to define the
location and boundaries of the proposed tract. Names of adjacent subdivisions
or, in the case of unplatted land, the name of the property owner or owners;
and
      (5)   Names and addresses of the owner, developer, engineer or surveyor,
landscape architect or any other persons involved in the planning of the
proposed development.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The following existing conditions shall be shown
on the preliminary plan: the location, width and names of all existing or
platted streets within or adjacent to the tract, together with easements,
railroad right-of-way and other important features, such as section lines and
corners, city boundary lines and monuments:
      (1)   Contour lines related to some established benchmark or other datum
and having the following intervals:
         (a)   Five-foot contour intervals for ground slopes less than 10%; and
         (b)   Ten-foot contour intervals for ground slopes exceeding 10%.
      (2)   Location and direction of all water courses and areas subject to
flooding;
      (3)   Natural features such as rock outcroppings, marshes, wooded areas
and isolated preservable trees;
      (4)   Existing uses of the property, including location of all existing
structures to remain on the property after development;
      (5)   The location within the development and in the adjoining streets
and property of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, drainpipes and the
electric and gas lines proposed to service the property to be developed; and
      (6)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
   (D)   Proposed plan of land partitioning. The following information shall be
included in the preliminary plan:
      (1)   Streets showing location, width, names and approximate grades. The
relationship of all streets to any projected streets as shown on any
development plan adopted by the Planning Commission or, if there is no complete
development plan, as suggested by the Planning Commission to assure adequate
area traffic circulation;
      (2)   Easements, showing width and purpose;
      (3)   Lots, showing approximate dimensions, minimum lot sizes and
proposed lot and block numbers; and
      (4)   Sites, if any, allocated for various uses when more than one use is
involved.
(2005 Code, § 11-703)
§ 11-704 EXPLANATORY INFORMATION WITH PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The following information shall be submitted in separate statements and maps
accompanying the preliminary plan or if practicable, shall be shown on the
preliminary plan:
   (A)   Improvements to be requested of the city and the approximate time such
request will be made;
   (B)   Improvements to be made by the developer and the approximate time such
improvements are to be completed. Sufficient detail regarding proposed
improvements shall be submitted so that they may be checked for compliance with
the objectives of this chapter, state laws and other applicable city
ordinances. If, however, the nature of the improvement is such that it is
impractical to prepare all necessary detail prior to approval of the
preliminary plan, the additional details shall be submitted at least 30 days
prior to the time of requested approval of the final plan. Agreements on any
recommended changes shall be obtained prior to approval of the final plan; and
   (C)   Other information that may be pertinent to the development.
(2005 Code, § 11-704)
§ 11-705 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Within 60 days after receiving the preliminary plan for the proposed planned
group development, the City Council will review the plan and the reports of the
agencies specified in §
11-707, and will establish a public hearing date. Notice of time, place and
purpose of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city not less than 20 days prior to the date of hearing.
(2005 Code, § 11-705)
§ 11-706 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the plan.
   (A)   If the preliminary plan is disapproved or approved conditionally, the
reason for such action shall be stated in writing, a copy of which signed by
the Planning Commission Chairman, shall be attached to one copy of the
preliminary plan and transmitted to the applicant and a second copy shall be
filed in the Planning Commission files until after the final plan is approved.
   (B)   If the plan conforms to all the standards, or after the applicant and
Planning Commission agree upon any revisions which shall be filed with the
Planning Commission on a revised copy, the applicant may proceed with
preparation of a final plan. However, this does not constitute acceptance of
the plan by the Planning Commission, but merely an authorization to proceed
with the preparation of the final plan.
(2005 Code, § 11-706)
§ 11-707 PRELIMINARY REVIEW OF PROPOSAL.
   Within five days after being submitted, the Zoning Administrator shall
furnish the specified number of copies of the preliminary plan and supplemental
material of the following:
   (A)   City Engineer: one copy;
   (B)   County Engineer: one copy;
   (C)   County Health Department: one copy;
   (D)   Fire Department: one copy to each, if necessary;
   (E)   Park Department: one copy;
   (F)   Utility companies serving the proposed subdivision: one copy each:
      (1)   Electric;
      (2)   Gas;
      (3)   Telephone; and
      (4)   Water.
   (G)   School District Administrator: one copy; and
   (H)   State Highway Department, if development is adjacent to a state
highway: one copy. These agencies will be given at least ten days to review the
plans, suggest revisions and return the plans to the Zoning Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 11-707)
§ 11-708 FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Within six months after tentative approval of the preliminary plan,
the developer shall cause the final plan to be prepared in conformance with the
preliminary plan as tentatively approved. At least five days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission, at which the final plan is to be
considered, the developer shall submit the original drawing of the final plan
prepared on a reproducible Mylar and three prints of the final plan and
supplementary information to the city.
   (B)   On the final plan, space for the date and signatures of the following
shall be included:
      (1)   Owners and developers of tract to be developed;
      (2)   Chairperson of Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Mayor of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-708)
§ 11-709 INFORMATION ON FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   The final plan shall include all the information required on the
preliminary plan with any changes or additions as previously required by the
Planning Commission when tentatively approved.
   (B)   The following information shall also be included on or accompany, the
final plan:
      (1)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
recorded title interest in the tract, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the final plan; and
      (2)   A certificate signed by the engineer or surveyor responsible for
any surveys made during preparation of the plan.
(2005 Code, § 11-709)
§ 11-710 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION ON FINAL PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall review and act upon the final plan within 60
days after it has been submitted for final approval. The Planning Commission
shall review and examine the final plan to determine that the plan as shown is
substantially the same as it appeared on the approved preliminary plan and that
there has been compliance with any conditions that might have been attached to
the preliminary plan. If the Planning Commission, after review, determines
changes or additions must be made, the developer shall have 60 days to make the
changes or additions. If the Planning Commission determines that full
conformity has been made, approval of the final plan shall be shown on the plan
with the date of such approval, signature of the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission affixed, and thereafter be sent to the City Council for official
action, either approval or disapproval.
(2005 Code, § 11-710)
§ 11-711 FILING AND RECORDING.
   After the plan is duly approved and signed, the Mylar shall be made part of
the permanent file of the Zoning Administrator and the Zoning Map shall be
corrected to show the attachment of the planned group development.
(2005 Code, § 11-711)
§ 11-712 PERMIT.
   After filing and recording the final plan, the Planning Commission shall
notify the Zoning Administrator in writing, to issue a permit for the planned
development.
(2005 Code, § 11-712)
§ 11-713 CHANGES IN PLAN.
   (A)   A building permit shall not be issued for any building which does not
conform to the plan; except that, a reasonable adjustment to location and gross
floor area of individual buildings may be granted after a review of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission does not approve the adjustment, then the
developer shall proceed in accordance with the final plan.
(2005 Code, § 11-713)
§ 11-714 TIME LIMIT.
   The developer shall make a reasonable effort to commence construction of the
proposed planned development within one year from the date of approval.
(2005 Code, § 11-714)
§ 11-715 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all planned group development.
   (A)   (1)   The tract must be a contiguous parcel, five acres or more, under
one ownership or held jointly by two or more owners.
      (2)   When an adjacent property is added to a previously platted and
approved property, and said property has a total of less than five acres, said
property may be approved after being re-platted and approved.
   (B)   The proposed development shall be designed to produce an environment
of a stable and desirable character, not out of harmony with its surrounding
neighborhood, and shall not conflict with the Comprehensive Plan or any parts
thereof.
   (C)   Buildings within a residential or office, or institutional planned
group development may be relieved of district regulations concerning yard size,
setback, height, bulk and other requirements where such requirements interfere
with the overall development. However, the buildings within 100 feet or
adjacent to the boundaries of the outer limits of the development shall
maintain the requirements as established for the district.
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
the district.
   (E)   Signs shall be permitted in accordance with the district.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall establish some method of assurance that
the development will be completed within five years of the final acceptance of
the plan.
(2005 Code, § 11-715) (Ord. 2360, passed 5-6-2014)
§ 11-716 CLASSES OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Residential permitted in Districts R, R-1, R-2, R-3 and MH;
   (B)   Commercial permitted in Districts C-1, C-2 and C-3; and
   (C)   Industrial permitted in District I-1.
(2005 Code, § 11-716)
§ 11-717 RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   In those districts where permitted, the total number of dwelling units
permitted in a planned development shall be determined by dividing the net
development area by the minimum lot area requirement of the district in which
the planned development is proposed to be located.
   (B)   The area of land set aside for common open space or recreational use
shall be included in the net development.
   (C)   When a planned development is located in a one-family district (R and
R-1), a maximum of 25% of the dwellings may be multiple dwellings; however, in
no case shall there be more than four dwellings per building.
(2005 Code, § 11-717)
§ 11-718 COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Motels are permitted within these districts when part of the overall
planned development.
   (B)   Residential development is permitted when part of the overall
development; however, it must meet the requirements of residential uses
normally required in the C-1 and C-2 Districts.
   (C)   If the development abuts or faces a residential district, there shall
be a buffer strip of at least 25 feet. The buffer strip shall be fenced or
screened as established by the Planning Commission.
(2005 Code, § 11-718)
§ 11-719 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Residential uses are not permitted in planned industrial developments.
   (B)   There shall be no retail uses unless they are accessory in nature and
are intended and designed to serve the group development.
   (C)   There shall be no outside storage unless screened as required by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   No storage and industrial operation within 100 feet of residential
development shall be permitted.
   (E)   There shall be a 25-foot buffer strip as required by the Planning
Commission.
   (F)   Plot or lot coverage shall not exceed 60%.
   (G)   Building height shall not be greater than the height limitation
established for the district in which the development is located.
(2005 Code, § 11-719)
ARTICLE 8: BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
Section
   
11-801   Establishment
   
11-802   Powers and duties
   
11-803   Interpretations
   
11-804   Variances
   
11-805   Action of a variance
   
11-806   Procedure for review of a variance
§ 11-801 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall consist of five regular members, plus
one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve
only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each
to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Zoning Adjustment and the appointment of
another Planning Commissioner to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of any
ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board may determine. Such Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
(2005 Code, § 11-801)
§ 11-802 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law and by this
chapter, which are more particularly specified in §§
11-803 through
11-806.
(2005 Code, § 11-802)
§ 11-803 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall, subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards as specified in these regulations have the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or an agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning
regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
regulation, requests for special exemptions or variances or for interpretation
of any map; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the regulation, or
by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this act would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships
upon the owner of such property.
   (B)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers such Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of said sections, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and
may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal
is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any such
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 11-803)
§ 11-804 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may authorize variances from the
requirements of this chapter where it can be shown that, owing to special and
unusual circumstances relating to a specific piece of property, the literal
interpretation of this chapter would cause an undue or unnecessary hardship;
except that, no variance shall be granted to allow the use of property for
purposes not authorized within the district in which the proposed use would be
located, except a variance may be granted for the alteration or extension of an
existing structure, which is non-conforming as to use if it meets the
requirements of subsections (B) and (D) below. In granting a variance, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach conditions which it finds necessary to
protect the best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood and to
otherwise achieve the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless it can be shown that all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The strict application of the ordinance would produce undue
hardship;
      (2)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
      (3)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
      (4)   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of demonstrable
and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for purposes of
convenience, profit or caprice.
(2005 Code, § 11-804)
§ 11-805 ACTION OF A VARIANCE.
   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the condition or
situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the property is not
of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable the
formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to the
Ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 11-805)
§ 11-806 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF A VARIANCE.
   The procedures to be followed by the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Written applications for the approval of the variances referred to in
§§
11-804 and
11-805 of this article shall be filed with the Board upon forms and in a manner
prescribed by the Board. A fee as established by resolution of the City Council
shall be paid to the Zoning Administrator, upon the filing of each application
for variance, for the purpose of defraying costs of the proceedings described
herein. A written receipt shall be issued to the person making such payment,
and records thereof shall be kept in such manner as prescribed by law. Such
applications, which appeal decisions by the enforcing officer, shall be made
within 20 days of the date of such decision.
   (B)   The Board shall hold a public hearing on each application for a
variance. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be given by
publication thereof in a paper of general circulation in the city at least one
time ten days prior to such hearing.
   (C)   The Board shall make its findings and determination in writing within
40 days from the date of filing the application and shall forthwith transmit a
copy thereof to the applicant.
   (D)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, which shall be a public record.
   (E)   In approving applications for variances, the Board shall have
authority to impose such conditions as it deems necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding property or neighborhood.
(2005 Code, § 11-806)
ARTICLE 9: AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
11-901   Authorization to initiate amendments
   
11-902   Application and fee
   
11-903   Public hearing of Planning Commission
   
11-904   Public hearing of the City Council
   
11-905   Action by the City Council
   
11-906   Protest petition
   
11-907   Minimum size of parcel
   
11-908   Approval of amendment to zoning map
   
11-909   Records of amendments
§ 11-901 AUTHORIZATION TO INITIATE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   An amendment to the text or the zoning map of this chapter may
be initiated by the City Council, by the Planning Commission, or by application
of a property owner or his or her authorized agent.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall, within 30 days after a hearing,
recommend to the City Council approval, disapproval or modification of the
proposed amendment.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall initially consider proposed amendments
initiated by a property owner or his or her authorized agent only at the
regularly scheduled meetings.
(2005 Code, § 11-901)
§ 11-902 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   An application for amendment by a property owner or his or her
authorized agent shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator 14 days prior to
the Planning Commission meeting at which the proposal is to be considered.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by
resolution of the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 11-902)
§ 11-903 PUBLIC HEARING OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Before taking final action on a proposed amendment, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing thereon.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. Notice of time and place of the public hearing
before the Planning Commission and of the purpose of the proposed amendment
shall be given in the following manner.
      (1)   If an amendment to the zoning map or text is proposed, the notice
shall be by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   In considering the adoption or amendment of a zoning ordinance, the
Planning Commission shall notify the Board of Education of each school district
in which real estate, or some part thereof, to be affected by such proposal
lies, of the public meeting of the Planning Commission at which such proposal
is to be considered and shall submit a copy of the proposal to the Board of
Education at least ten days prior to such meeting.
   (B)   Recess of hearing. The Planning Commission may recess a hearing in
order to obtain additional information or to serve further notice upon other
property owners or persons it decides may be interested in the proposed
amendment. Upon recessing for this purpose, the Planning Commission shall
announce the time and date when the hearing will be resumed.
(2005 Code, § 11-903)
§ 11-904 PUBLIC HEARING OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall not hold its public meetings or take action on
matters relating to any contemplated amendment, supplement, change,
modification or repeal of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Procedures for the public hearing shall be as follows.
      (1)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be given by
publication thereof in a paper of general circulation or by publishing the same
in book or pamphlet form in the city at least one time ten days prior to such
meeting.
      (2)   In addition to the publication of the notice, a notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property on which action is
pending. Such notice shall not be less than 18 inches in height and 24 inches
in width with a white or yellow background and black letters not less than one
and one-half inches in height. Such posted notice shall be so placed upon such
premises that it is easily visible from the street nearest the same and shall
be so posted at least ten days prior to the date of such hearing. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such notice prior to
such hearing. Any person so doing shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. If
the record title owners of any lots included in such proposed change be non-
residents of the municipality, then a written notice of such hearing shall be
mailed by certified mail to them addressed to their last known addresses at
least ten days prior to such hearing. At the option of the legislative body of
the municipality, in place of the posted notice provided above, the owners or
occupants of the real estate to be zoned or rezoned and all real estate located
within 300 feet of the real estate to be zoned or rezoned may be personally
served with a written notice thereof at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing, if they can be served with such notice within the county where such
real estate is located. Where such notice cannot be served personally upon such
owners or occupants in the county where such real estate is located, a written
notice of such hearing shall be mailed to such owners or occupants addressed to
their last known addresses at least ten days prior to such hearing. The
provisions of this section in reference to notice shall not apply:
         (a)   In the event of a proposed change in such regulations,
restrictions or boundaries throughout the entire area of an existing zoning
district or of the city; or
         (b)   In the event additional or different types of zoning districts
are proposed, whether or not such additional or different districts are made
applicable to areas, or parts of areas, already within a zoning district of the
city, but only the requirements of Neb. RS 19-904 shall be applicable.
(2005 Code, § 11-904)
§ 11-905 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   All proposed amendments, supplements, changes or modifications shall not
become effective, except by a favorable vote by a majority of all the City
Council members. If a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally by the City
Council within 90 days after the conclusion of the public hearing by the City
Council, such proposed amendment shall be deemed to have been defeated and
denied, unless the applicant of such amendment shall have consented to an
extension of such period of time. Whenever a proposed amendment is defeated,
either by vote of the City Council or by reason of the operation of this
section, such amendment shall not thereafter be passed without a further public
hearing and notice thereof as provided in §
11-904 of this article.
(2005 Code, § 11-905)
§ 11-906 PROTEST PETITION.
   If a written protest against a proposed amendment shall be filed in the
office of the Zoning Administrator within ten days after the conclusion of the
public hearing by the City Council, which protest is duly signed by the owners
of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change,
or of those immediately adjacent on the sides and in the rear thereof extending
300 feet therefrom and of those directly opposite thereto extending 300 feet
from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not become
effective, except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all the members of
the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 11-906)
§ 11-907 MINIMUM SIZE OF PARCEL.
   No amendment changing the zoning classification of any lot, parcel or tract
of land shall be adopted unless such lot, parcel or tract has 100 feet of
frontage on a public street, or has 10,000 square feet of area, or abuts on a
lot, parcel or tract of land that has the same zoning classification as that
which is proposed for the property which is the subject of the proposed
amendments.
(2005 Code, § 11-907)
§ 11-908 APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO ZONING MAP.
   In granting an amendment to the zoning map, upon application by a property
owner or his or her authorized agent, the City Council may require the
dedication of additional street right-of-way where an officially adopted street
plan indicates need for increased width or where the nature of the proposed
development warrants increased street width, and the Council may require
permanent screen strips or other devices to minimize conflict with residential
land use.
(2005 Code, § 11-908)
§ 11-909 RECORDS OF AMENDMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall maintain a record of amendments to the text and map of
this chapter in a form convenient for the use of the public.
(2005 Code, § 11-909)
ARTICLE 10: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND INTERPRETATION
Section
   
11-1001   Enforcement
   
11-1002   Form of petition, applications and appeals
   
11-1003   Permits on unplatted land
   
11-1004   Temporary permits
   
11-1005   Time limit on a permit for a conditional use or a variance
   
11-1006   Interpretation
   
11-1007   Severability
   
11-1008   Penalty
§ 11-1001 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, designated by the City Council, shall have
the power and duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   An appeal from a ruling of the Zoning Administrator shall be made to
the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(2005 Code, § 11-1001)
§ 11-1002 FORM OF PETITION, APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   All permits, petitions, applications and appeals provided for in this
chapter shall be made on forms provided for the purpose or as otherwise
prescribed by the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Adjustment or City
Council in order to assure the fullest practical presentation of pertinent
facts and to maintain a permanent record.
   (B)   All applications for building and occupancy permits shall be
accompanied by plans and specifications, drawn to scale, showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the lot to be used and/or built upon; the exact sizes
and locations on the lot of the buildings and other structures, existing and
proposed; the existing and intended use of each building, structure or part
thereof; the number of families to be accommodated, if any; and such other
information as is needed to determine conformance with the provisions of this
chapter and of the Building Code.
(2005 Code, § 11-1002)
§ 11-1003 PERMITS ON UNPLATTED LAND.
   There shall be no building permit issued on a plot which does not consist of
a platted lot or lots duly approved and recorded; except that, on ten acres or
more where the use of said land is entirely for agricultural purposes, a
building permit shall be issued.
(2005 Code, § 11-1003)
§ 11-1004 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The Building Inspector shall issue temporary permits for buildings to be
constructed and used for storage incidental to construction of buildings on the
property and for signs advertising a subdivision or tract of land or the lots
thereon.
(2005 Code, § 11-1004)
§ 11-1005 TIME LIMIT ON A PERMIT FOR A CONDITIONAL USE OR A VARIANCE.
   A building permit for a conditional use or for a use involving a variance
shall be void after six months from the day of issuance if no substantial
construction has taken place.
(2005 Code, § 11-1005)
§ 11-1006 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
fulfilling its objectives. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of the
ordinance are less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provisions of this chapter or of any other ordinance, resolution or regulation,
the provisions which are more restrictive shall govern.
(2005 Code, § 11-1006)
§ 11-1007 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-1007)
§ 11-1008 PENALTY.
   The owner or owners of any building or buildings or premises or part thereof
where anything in violation of this chapter exists or is placed or maintained;
and any architect, builder or contractor who assists in the commission of any
such violation; and all persons or corporations who violate or maintain any
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or who fail to comply
therewith or with any requirements thereof or who build in violation of any
statement of plan submitted and approved there under shall, for each and every
violation or non-compliance, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. Every person
violating or contributing in any way to the violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during which
such violation continues and may be punished therefor as herein provided.
(2005 Code, § 11-1008)
ARTICLE 11: MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-1101   Finding of public necessity
   
11-1102   Definitions
   
11-1103   Park license
   
11-1104   Temporary permit
   
11-1105   Exemptions
   
11-1106   Fees; license fees; temporary permit fees
   
11-1107   Validity dates for licenses
   
11-1108   Application for license and temporary permit; filing of application
   
11-1109   Information required for initial license
   
11-1110   License; application for an existing park
   
11-1111   Permit; application for a temporary permit; action on a temporary
permit
   
11-1112   Application for license renewal
   
11-1113   Non-conforming mobile homes and mobile home parks
   
11-1114   Revocation of license
   
11-1115   Appeal on the denial or revocation of a license
   
11-1116   Mobile home park location
   
11-1117   Mobile home park standards
   
11-1118   Service building
   
11-1119   Water supply; standards; service connections
   
11-1120   Sewage disposal; standards
   
11-1121   Refuse disposal; requirements
   
11-1122   Electricity; standards
   
11-1123   Fuel; standards
   
11-1124   Fire protection; Fire Codes; fire extinguishers; fire hydrants
   
11-1125   Penalties
   
11-1126   Conflict of ordinances; compliance with ordinance provisions
   
11-1127   Validity
§ 11-1101 FINDING OF PUBLIC NECESSITY.
   It is hereby found that in order to protect and promote the public’s health,
morale, convenience, safety and welfare, to preserve the appropriate character
of each area within the sound principles of the zoning ordinance, it is
necessary to provide for the licensing, regulations, permits and fees for the
location and operation of mobile home parks within the jurisdictional area
governed by the city’s zoning regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1101)
§ 11-1102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath
or shower.
   LICENSEE. Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park
under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A year-round, transportable structure which is a single-family
dwelling unit suitable for permanent, more than 30 days of living quarters,
more than eight feet wide and 40 feet in length and built to be towed on its
own chassis with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. This portable dwelling may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or two or more units, separately towable, but designed to be joined as one
integral unit. Nothing in this definition shall be construed so as to include
prefabricated, modular, precut dwelling units or these manufactured in sections
or parts away from the site and transported thereto for assembly.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of land which one or more mobile homes are
parked, connected to utilities and used by one or more persons for living or
sleeping purposes. A mobile home parked in this area can either be placed on a
permanent foundation or supported only by its wheels, jacks, blocks or
skirtings or a combination of these devices. A MOBILE HOME PARK includes any
premises set apart for supplying to the public parking space, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes for one or more mobile homes, connected to
utilities and used by one or more persons for living, or sleeping purposes and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home community or park
which is designed for and designated as the location for only one mobile home
and not used for any other purposes whatsoever other than the customary
accessory uses thereof.
   NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER. Any street, river, pond, canal, railroad,
levee, embankment or screening by appropriate fence or hedge.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a temporary permit is issued to maintain an
individual mobile home outside of a licensed mobile home community or park and
in accordance with the provisions as hereinafter prescribed.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation, whether tenant, owner, lessee, licensee, permittee, agent, heirs
or assigns.
   VACATION TRAILER. A vehicle or structure equipped with wheels for highway
use that is intended for human occupancy, but is not being used for residential
purposes and is being used for vacation or recreational purposes only.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The legally designated inspection authority of the
city or his or her authorized representative.
(2005 Code, § 11-1102)
§ 11-1103 PARK LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain, operate or
permit to be established, maintained or operated any mobile home park within
the jurisdiction of the city without first having secured a license therefor.
(2005 Code, § 11-1103)
§ 11-1104 TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or abandon any
mobile home upon any street, alley, highway or other public place or upon any
premises or tract of land located within the jurisdiction of the city and which
is situated outside of a licensed mobile home park without first having secured
a temporary permit as herein required.
   (B)   The parking of one visiting mobile home in an accessory private garage
building, or in the rear yard of any premises for a period not to exceed 14
days shall be permitted; provided that, the temporary permit for such shall not
be renewed or another permit issued for such mobile home at the same location
within the calendar year that such temporary permit was issued.
(2005 Code, § 11-1104)
§ 11-1105 EXEMPTIONS.
   Sections 11-1103 and 11-1104 of this article shall not apply to the
following:
   (A)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking for 24 hours; however, all
such cases shall be subject to any other limitations that may be imposed by
other ordinances of the city relative to parking;
   (B)   Unoccupied mobile homes for demonstration and sales purposes only may
be located within any district permitted by the Zoning Ordinance for such; and
   (C)   The storage of any unoccupied or uninhabited vacation trailer within
the corporate limits of the city shall be permitted in the rear yard of any
premises; provided that, all such storage is not in conflict with any other
articles of this chapter, the zoning regulations or other pertinent ordinances
of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1105)
§ 11-1106 FEES; LICENSE FEES; TEMPORARY PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each mobile home park shall be $1 for each
mobile home space contained therein or a minimum charge of $15.
(2005 Code, § 11-1106)
   (B)   The cost of a temporary permit for each single mobile home as provided
herein shall be $5.
(2005 Code, § 11-1107)
§ 11-1107 VALIDITY DATES FOR LICENSES.
   All license fees, except temporary permit fees, shall be for the calendar
year, shall not be prorated, and shall expire on December 31 of each year;
provided that, a mobile home park license may be transferred to another person
during the current year of such license upon payment of $5 to the office of the
City Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 11-1108)
§ 11-1108 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND TEMPORARY PERMIT; FILING OF APPLICATION.
   Application for a mobile home park license or a temporary permit for an
individual mobile home as provided and required in §§
11-1103 through
11-1105 of this article shall be filed with the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 11-1109)
§ 11-1109 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR INITIAL LICENSE.
   The application for an initial mobile home park license shall be in writing,
signed by the owner and shall include the following:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The location and legal description of the mobile home community or
mobile home park;
   (C)   A complete plan of the mobile home park in conformity with all of the
requirements for such as contained in these regulations and the zoning and
subdivision regulations of the city;
   (D)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and other
facilities such as electrical wiring, water service pipes, gas service pipes
and sewer service, constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home
park; and
   (E)   Such further information as may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator to enable him or her to determine if the proposed mobile home
park will comply with all the requirements of this chapter, and any other
ordinances of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1110)
§ 11-1110 LICENSE; APPLICATION FOR AN EXISTING PARK.
   An application for a license to operate an existing trailer park shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall provide for
the examination of the park and identify the conditions or facilities which do
not meet the standards provided for in this chapter. The Zoning Administrator
shall prepare an agreement setting forth any improvements required by this
chapter. A license shall not be issued until the owner of the trailer park has
signed an agreement with the city, agreeing to install improvements required by
this chapter. Before any application as required by this section may be
approved for a mobile home park, there must be recommendation from the Planning
Commission approving the site, location design and layout of the mobile home
park and conformity with this chapter. Upon the receipt of the recommendation
for such from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall consider the
application and approve or disapprove. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall be
authorized to issue a license for such, upon payment of fee or fees as provided
in these regulations. If such application is disapproved, the City Council
shall advise the applicant in writing, the reasons for such disapproval.
(2005 Code, § 11-1111)
§ 11-1111 PERMIT; APPLICATION FOR A TEMPORARY PERMIT; ACTION ON A TEMPORARY
PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a temporary permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the property or area upon
which the mobile home is to be parked temporarily;
      (3)   The dates that the said mobile home will be temporarily parked;
      (4)   The license number of the mobile home; and
      (5)   Certification by the occupant, owner or tenant that all plumbing
fixtures may be sealed by the Zoning Administrator or his or her
representative. In the event that such plumbing is sealed, the owner or
occupant of such mobile home shall not permit such seal to be broken, except by
the direction of the Zoning Administrator or his or her representative.
(2005 Code, § 11-1112)
   (B)   All applications for a temporary permit as herein required shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator. Upon certification by the Zoning
Administrator that the applicant for a temporary permit is in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the office of the City Clerk shall issue the
temporary permit upon payment of the fee hereinbefore provided.
(2005 Code, § 11-1113)
§ 11-1112 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Upon application in writing by a licensee for renewal of a license and after
re-inspection by the Zoning Administrator of the mobile home park for
conformance with the regulations of this article and upon payment of the annual
license fee, the City Clerk shall issue a certificate renewing such license for
another year.
(2005 Code, § 11-1114)
§ 11-1113 NON-CONFORMING MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   All existing mobile homes or mobile home parks, spaces or areas not meeting
the requirements of this chapter shall be declared non-conforming and shall not
be permitted to add spaces or make any improvement inconsistent with the terms
and conditions of this chapter and any such non-conforming mobile home park,
space or area which is not operated for a period of three months, shall not
reopen until the conditions of this chapter shall have been complied with.
(2005 Code, § 11-1115)
§ 11-1114 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Upon inspection of any mobile home park, the Zoning Administrator finds that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of this
chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Zoning Administrator
shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued; and,
unless such conditions or practices are corrected within 30 days, he or she
shall give notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued that
the license has been revoked. Upon receipt of the notice of revocation, such
person or persons shall cease operation of such mobile home park.
(2005 Code, § 11-1116)
§ 11-1115 APPEAL ON THE DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   Any person whose application for a license has been denied or any person
whose license has been revoked, may request and shall be granted a hearing of
the matter before such body within three days following the day on which such
notice was received or license denied and the city governing body shall hold
such hearing within 21 days after the filing of such application. The filing of
such application shall not suspend any order of the Zoning Administrator in
denying an application for license, but shall suspend any order of revocation
of said license until the matter has been determined by the city’s governing
body.
(2005 Code, § 11-1117)
§ 11-1116 MOBILE HOME PARK LOCATION.
   A mobile home park may be located in any district as provided by this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 11-1118)
§ 11-1117 MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS.
   Mobile home parks shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Location shall be the same as contained in §
11-1116 of this article.
   (B)   Mobile home spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of 4,000
square feet for each space and which shall be clearly defined and marked.
   (C)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a storage locker of at
least 100 square feet of floor area; and there shall be no open storage.
   (D)   There shall be no additions made to mobile homes except those
additions which shall not be in conflict with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Mobile homes shall be harbored on each space so that there shall be at
least a 20-foot clearance between mobile homes; provided that, with respect to
mobile homes parked end to end, the end to end clearance may be less than 20
feet, but not less than 15 feet. No mobile home shall be located closer than 25
feet from any building within the mobile home park or from any property line
bounding the mobile home park. No mobile home shall be located closer than ten
feet from the curb line of an interior roadway.
   (F)   (1)   No mobile home shall have direct access to a public right-of-
way. Off-street or off-roadway parking spaces shall be maintained on each
mobile home space at a minimum ratio of two car parking spaces for each mobile
home space. All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a private roadway at least
20 feet in width.
      (2)   No parking shall be permitted on any such roadway which is less
than 30 feet in width.
      (3)   All such roadways shall have unobstructed access to a public street
or highway; provided that, the sole vehicular access shall not be an alley and
that all dead end roadways shall include adequate vehicular turning space or
cul-de-sac.
   (G)   All roadways and walks within the mobile home park shall be all
weather-surfaced, maintained and adequately lighted as per residential street
lighting requirements of the city.
   (H)   A park and recreation area shall be provided having a minimum of 150
square feet per mobile home space; provided that, this requirement may be
waived when the mobile home community is adjacent or within 400 feet of a
public park or recreation area.
   (I)   All electrical distribution systems, plumbing systems and telephone
service systems to each mobile home space, except outlets and risers, shall be
underground. Each mobile home space shall be provided with a 115-volt and 230-
volt service with a minimum of 100 ampere per individual service outlet.
   (J)   Outdoor laundry drying space of adequate area and suitable location
shall be provided and equipped with necessary clothes lines and other
essentials.
   (K)   Whenever master television antenna systems are to be installed, the
complete plans and specifications for the system must be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Distribution to individual mobile home spaces shall be
underground and shall terminate adjacent to the electrical outlet.
   (L)   A landscape buffer shall be provided not less than 15 feet in width
and said landscape buffer shall be planted with coniferous and deciduous plant
material along all edges of the mobile home park so as to provide proper
screening for the park. The landscape buffer shall be properly maintained by
the owner. A continuous population of deciduous and conifer trees must be
maintained on all lots that will provide a 50% or greater overhead canopy when
trees are at mature size.
   (M)   All mobile homes shall be secured to the ground by tie downs and
ground anchors in accordance with standards of the state’s Department of
Health.
   (N)   All mobile homes shall be clocked at a maximum of ten-foot centers
around the perimeter of each mobile home, and this blocking shall provide 16
inches by 16 inches bearing upon the stand.
   (O)   Pad requirements shall be a hard surface of PC concrete or asphalt
slab capable of carrying the weight and of sufficient length to support all
blocking points of the mobile home.
   (P)   Each mobile home shall be skirted within 30 days after placement in
the park by enclosing the open area under the unit with a material that is
compatible with the exterior finish of the mobile home and is consistent with
the quality of development of the park.
(2005 Code, § 11-1119)
§ 11-1118 SERVICE BUILDING.
   (A)   If independent mobile home spaces only are provided, no service
building shall be required. Any mobile home park providing for dependent mobile
homes shall have one or more service buildings constructed in accordance with
the provisions of the Building, Plumbing and Electrical Codes of the city.
   (B)   Such service building shall:
      (1)   Be located 20 feet or more from any mobile home space;
      (2)   Be adequately lighted;
      (3)   Have the interior finished with moisture-resistant material to
permit frequent washing and cleaning;
      (4)   Provide at least one lavatory, water closet and shower for each
sex, one laundry tray, one slop water drain and hot and cold water;
      (5)   Have adequate heating facilities for the building and equipment
which will furnish an ample supply of heated water during times of peak
demands; and
      (6)   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively
screened.
(2005 Code, § 11-1120)
§ 11-1119 WATER SUPPLY; STANDARDS; SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The water supply shall be connected to the municipal water system and
all plumbing shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the city’s
Plumbing Code.
(2005 Code, § 11-1121)
   (B)   Individual water service connections shall be provided for direct use
by mobile homes and shall be so constructed that they will not be damaged by
the parking of such mobile homes, or as required by the Zoning Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 11-1122)
§ 11-1120 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; STANDARDS.
   (A)   All plumbing in a mobile home park shall comply with state and local
plumbing laws and regulations. Each mobile home space shall be provided with at
least a four-inch sewer connection. The sewer connection shall be provided with
suitable fitting so that a watertight connection can be made between the mobile
home drain and the sewer connection. Such individual mobile home connections
shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not connected to a mobile
home and shall be trapped in such a manner as to maintain them in odor-free
condition.
   (B)   Sewer lines shall be constructed with the approval of the Zoning
Administrator and in accordance with the Plumbing Code and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Zoning Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 11-1123)
§ 11-1121 REFUSE DISPOSAL; REQUIREMENTS.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in mobile home parks shall be
in compliance with the refuse disposal requirements of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1124)
§ 11-1122 ELECTRICITY; STANDARDS.
   All electric installations shall comply with the electrical code of the
city. Such electrical outlets shall be weather-proof. No power line, including
service lines to the mobile home shall be permitted to lie on the surface of
the ground. All power lines providing service to the parks shall be suspended
at a height required by the power companies serving such park.
(2005 Code, § 11-1125)
§ 11-1123 FUEL; STANDARDS.
   Natural and liquefied petroleum gas for cooking purposes may be used at
individual mobile home spaces; provided, however, that, the installation is
connected by copper or to other suitable metallic tubing and complies with the
fire prevention code of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1126)
§ 11-1124 FIRE PROTECTION; FIRE CODES; FIRE EXTINGUISHERS; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Each mobile home community and mobile home park shall be subject to
the rules and regulations of the city and the Fire Prevention Code.
(2005 Code, § 11-1127)
   (B)   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the city shall be
kept in service buildings and in all other locations named by the city, and
shall be maintained at all times in good operating condition.
(2005 Code, § 11-1128)
   (C)   Standard fire hydrants shall be located according to city
requirements.
(2005 Code, § 11-1129)
§ 11-1125 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any provision of
any regulation adopted by the city’s governing body pursuant to authority
granted by this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100 and each day’s failure of compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 11-1130)
§ 11-1126 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this article is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or
code of the city, the more restrictive requirement shall apply.
(2005 Code, § 11-1131)
§ 11-1127 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
article shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this article, which shall remain in
full force and effect and to the end that the provisions of this article are
hereby declared to be severable.
(2005 Code, § 11-1132)
ARTICLE 12: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-1201   Short title
   
11-1202   Purpose
   
11-1203   Authority
   
11-1204   Jurisdiction
   
11-1205   Applicability
   
11-1206   Exemptions
   
11-1207   Administration and enforcement; division of responsibility; Planning
Commission; local governing body; filing fees; enforcement
   
11-1208   Preliminary plat; procedure for approval of subdivision plats;
application for subdivision approval; filing fee; contents; distribution and
review; action by the Planning Commission; failure of Planning Commission;
appeal of Planning Commission decision to the City Council; effect of approval
   
11-1209   Final plat; action by the Planning Commission; failure of Planning
Commission to act; submission to governing body; failure of governing body to
act
   
11-1210   Planned unit development
   
11-1211   Authorization for approval of plats for small tracts; requirements
for approval; approval
   
11-1212   Building and other permits
   
11-1213   Contents of preliminary plat
   
11-1214   Contents of final plat
   
11-1215   Lot splits; general intent; application procedure; 120-day objection
period for conveyances not in compliance; application for waiver and notice of
conveyance; approval guidelines
   
11-1216   Design standards; scope; development plan; access; parks,
playgrounds, open space, schools, streets and public facility sites; streets,
layout and design; blocks; lots; easements; business, commercial and industrial
subdivision; planned unit development
   
11-1217   Installation of required improvements; subdivision types; engineering
jurisdictions; required improvements; exceptions for existing improvements;
agreement, bond, deposit, petitions and ordinances guaranteeing installation;
availability of city services and facilities; vacation of undeveloped
subdivision; submission of petitions
   
11-1218   Improvement procedures; final improvement plans; content of
engineering drawings; review of plans; approval by Planning Commission;
construction of improvements; inspection; inspection procedures; final
inspection; report to Planning Commission and governing body; acceptance of
improvements
   
11-1219   Appeals general; appeals on improvement standards
   
11-1220   Waivers
   
11-1221   Variances
   
11-1222   Amendments; procedure
   
11-1223   Definitions
   
11-1224   Subdivision regulations; amendments; procedure
§ 11-1201 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the “Holdrege Subdivision Regulations”.
(2005 Code, § 11-1201)
§ 11-1202 PURPOSE.
   Responsible land subdivision is the initial step in the process of orderly
community development. Once land has been divided into streets, lots and blocks
and publicly recorded, the correction of defects is difficult and costly. The
purpose of this article is to set forth rules and regulations for the division
of real property so that each subdivision shall be properly coordinated with
existing streets, utilities and public facilities and for the future
development of these entities. These regulations will be helpful to city
officials and private developers by clarifying city requirements and by
assuring more uniform application of city standards for new subdivisions.
(2005 Code, § 11-1202)
§ 11-1203 AUTHORITY.
   The requirements and recommendations set forth herein are designed to
encourage orderly municipal growth for the city through responsible land
subdivision and are adopted under authority established by state law.
(2005 Code, § 11-1203)
§ 11-1204 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land within the
corporate limits of the city, as presently exists or as hereafter established,
and any unincorporated territory lying outside of, but within, two miles of the
nearest point of the city limits.
(2005 Code, § 11-1204)
§ 11-1205 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations of this article shall apply to any person desiring to:
   (A)   Divide or further divide land;
   (B)   Otherwise alter the boundaries of lots or parcels of land;
   (C)   Vacate streets or alleys; or
   (D)   Dedicate land for use as streets, alleys or sidewalks or for other
public or private purposes, except in compliance with the provisions of this
article.
(2005 Code, § 11-1205)
§ 11-1206 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of §§
11-1203 through
11-1205 of this article, these regulations shall not apply in the following
instances or transactions:
   (A)   The division or further division of land into lots or parcels, each of
which contains more than ten acres, where such subdivision does not involve the
creation of any new streets or easements of access as may be determined by the
Planning Commission;
   (B)   A transaction between owners of adjoining land which involves only a
change in the boundary between the land owned by such persons and does not
create an additional lot;
   (C)   A conveyance of land or interest therein for use as right-of-way by
railroad or other public utilities subject to state or federal regulations,
where no new street or easement of access is created;
   (D)   A conveyance made to correct a description in a prior conveyance;
   (E)   Any transfer by operation of law;
   (F)   The division of land in the unincorporated area into no more than two
parcels or tracts (one of which is the original tract) not covered by any other
exemption clause of this section and which does not involve any new streets or
easements of access; and
   (G)   Any lot split approved in accordance with these regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1206)
§ 11-1207 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY; PLANNING
COMMISSION; LOCAL GOVERNING BODY; FILING FEES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The administration of these regulations is vested in the
following governmental branches, agencies, departments or individuals of the
government of the city:
         (a)   The City of Holdrege Planning Commission (hereinafter referred
to as the “Planning Commission”); and
         (b)   The local governing body (hereinafter referred to as “the City
Council”).
      (2)   Each of the above named governmental branches, agencies,
departments or individuals shall have the responsibilities hereinafter set
forth.
(2005 Code, § 11-1207)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall:
      (1)   Maintain an up-to-date subdivision ordinance, including amendments
thereto and permanent and current records with respect to these regulations;
      (2)   Receive, file and transmit applications, sketch plats, preliminary
plats and final plats, to the designated review groups as specified in these
regulations; and
      (3)   Inform applicants of procedures required for subdivision approval.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Review final plat for compliance with the preliminary plat as
approved;
      (2)   Review and approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the sketch
plat;
      (3)   Review and approve, approve conditionally or disapprove the
preliminary plats;
      (4)   Review and approve or disapprove the final plat and transmit the
same to the City Council for approval or disapproval and for the acceptance of
dedications of streets, alleys and other public ways and sites, if approved;
      (5)   Transmit the final plat to the governing body of the county for
acceptance of dedications of streets, alleys and other public ways and sites
where a proposed subdivision is in the unincorporated area of the county; and
      (6)   Make such other determinations and decisions as may be required of
the Planning Commission from time to time by these regulations or the
applicable sections of the state law.
(2005 Code, § 11-1208)
   (D)   The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove all final
plats and, in cases of approval where appropriate, accept dedications of
streets, alleys and other public ways and sites shown on such plats and, in
cases of disapproval, shall inform the applicant in writing of the reasons for
disapproval.
(2005 Code, § 11-1209)
   (E)   Prior to the filing of a preliminary plat, the following fees shall be
paid.
      (1)   The filing fee shall be: $20, plus $5 each for lots zero to ten; $2
each for lots 11 to 50; and $1 each for all lots over 50.
      (2)   The filing fee for a lot split or vacation shall be $20.
      (3)   A written receipt shall be issued to the person(s) making such
payment. No fee shall be required when such proposed plat, subdivision, lot
split or vacation is owned by any department, agency, political subdivision,
board or commission of any city, county or federal government.
      (4)   No fee shall be refunded in the event that a preliminary or final
plat is disapproved.
(2005 Code, § 11-1210)
   (F)   No plat or subdivision shall be approved which does not comply with
the provisions of these regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1211) (Ord. 2459, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 11-1208 PRELIMINARY PLAT; PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS;
APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL; FILING FEE; CONTENTS; DISTRIBUTION AND
REVIEW; ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION; FAILURE OF PLANNING COMMISSION;
APPEAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION TO THE CITY COUNCIL; EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any person desiring to subdivide land that is subject to the
provisions of this article shall file with the City Clerk an application which
states the name and address of the person making the application. Ten copies of
the preliminary plat shall be filed with the City Clerk. The copies of the
preliminary plat and all appropriate information shall then be transmitted to
the Planning Commission for appropriate action.
(2005 Code, § 11-1212)
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall not be accepted for filing until a filing
fee therefore has been paid by the subdivider.
(2005 Code, § 11-1213)
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall contain information and data set out in §§
11-1213 and
11-1214 of these regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1214)
   (D)   The City Clerk shall distribute one or more copies of the preliminary
plat to the following governmental agencies, departments and other persons as
may be deemed appropriate for the particular proposed subdivision; the
Municipal Services Director, the City Engineer, the Planning Commission, the
Fire Department, the Police Department, the appropriate Health Department, the
Zoning Administrator, State Highway Department (if the subdivision is adjacent
to a state highway) and Utility Companies providing gas, telephone, electric or
water service in or near the subdivision. The agencies, departments and persons
named in this section shall have a minimum of five working days to review the
preliminary plat and to make their report and recommendations to the Planning
Commission. The agencies, departments and appropriate persons named in this
section shall return the preliminary plat, report and recommendations to the
Planning Commission. If such report has not been returned to the Planning
Commission within ten working days after receiving a plat for review, the
proposed plat shall be deemed to be in conformance with the laws, rules or
policies of the reviewing agency or department.
(2005 Code, § 11-1215)
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and consider
the report and recommendations of the agencies, departments and persons to whom
the preliminary plat has been submitted for review and may conduct a public
hearing, at which time interested persons may attend and offer evidence in
support of or against such preliminary plat.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall thereupon determine on the basis of
all evidence before it, whether the preliminary plat generally meets the design
standards and requirements of these regulations, a development plan of the
city, the zoning regulations of the city and other applicable provisions of the
city.
      (2)   If the foregoing considerations are satisfied, the Planning
Commission shall approve the preliminary plat and endorse such approval on the
face of the plat.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission determines that the preliminary plat
does not satisfy the foregoing conditions, it may suggest modifications so as
to satisfy such conditions and in such event:
         (a)   The subdivider may amend the preliminary plat so as to
incorporate such modifications and re-submit the preliminary plat to the
Planning Commission which shall then grant its approval if such amendments
satisfactorily incorporate the suggested modifications; or
         (b)   The subdivider may reject the suggested modifications, or,
within the time allowed for Planning Commission action, may refrain from taking
any action thereon. In either event, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to
have been disapproved and the Planning Commission shall thereupon furnish the
subdivider a written statement setting forth the reasons for disapproval of the
preliminary plat.
      (4)   If the Planning Commission determines that the preliminary plat
does not satisfy the foregoing conditions and that modifications would be too
extensive or impractical, it shall disapprove the preliminary plat and
immediately notify the subdivider of its action and the reasons therefor.
      (5)   The foregoing provisions to the contrary not withstanding, the
Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within 60
days from the date of filing such plat or from the date the subdivider has
submitted the last item of required data, whichever date is later, unless such
time is extended by mutual consent. If the preliminary plat is disapproved,
then within ten days thereof the Planning Commission shall furnish to the
subdivider a statement in writing setting forth the reason for disapproval and
specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed preliminary
plat fails to conform to the requirements of these regulations, the development
plan and the zoning regulations of the area, and other applicable provisions of
the ordinances of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1216)
   (F)   If the Planning Commission falls to approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat within the period of time set by subsection (E) above, then
such preliminary plat shall be deemed to have been approved unless the
subdivider shall have consented to extend or waive such time limitation.
(2005 Code, § 11-1217)
   (G)   Any interested person may appeal a decision of the Planning Commission
regarding preliminary plats to the City Council by filing notice of appeal with
the City Clerk within 30 days following the action of the Planning Commission.
Any decision by the City Council to approve, disapprove or amend the
preliminary plat shall be stated in writing, to the Planning Commission and the
person appealing the decision, setting forth the reason for its final decision.
(2005 Code, § 11-1218)
   (H)   (1)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute acceptance
of the subdivision by the Planning Commission, but shall signify merely the
general acceptability of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Such approval shall be considered permission to prepare the final
plat, detailed plans and specifications for the proposed subdivision and for
all public improvements to be constructed therein by the subdivider.
      (3)   Such approval shall be effective for no more than 12 months from
the date approval was granted, unless, upon an application of the subdivider,
the Planning Commission grants an extension of time beyond such period. If the
final plat has not been approved and recorded by the provisions of these
regulations within such 12-month period, or any extensions granted thereto, the
preliminary plat must be re-submitted to the Planning Commission as if no such
plat had ever been approved; except that, no additional fee shall be charged
for such re-submission.
(2005 Code, § 11-1219)
§ 11-1209 FINAL PLAT; ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION; FAILURE OF PLANNING
COMMISSION TO ACT; SUBMISSION TO GOVERNING BODY; FAILURE OF GOVERNING BODY TO
ACT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be accurately, clearly and legibly drawn in black
waterproof India ink or photographed upon good tracing cloth or Mylar. The
original plat, which bears all affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments and
signatures, together with ten copies thereof, shall be filed with the City
Clerk and transmitted to the Planning Commission within 12 months after the
date that the preliminary plat is approved.
(2005 Code, § 11-1220)
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat
within 60 days after it has been submitted for final approval. If the Planning
Commission disapproved the final plat, it shall advise the subdivider in
writing of the reasons for such disapproval within ten days after such action.
The Planning Commission shall approve a final plat if it is:
      (1)   Substantially the same as the approved preliminary plat;
      (2)   There has been compliance with all conditions, restrictions and
requirements of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the city;
and
      (3)   There has been compliance with any conditions that may have been
attached to the approval of the preliminary plat.
(2005 Code, § 11-1221)
   (C)   If the Planning Commission fails to act on the final plat within 60
days, it shall be deemed to have been approved unless the subdivider shall have
consented to extend or waive such time limitations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1222)
   (D)   Before a final plat is recorded it shall be submitted to the
appropriate governing body for its approval, acceptance of streets and other
public ways, service and utility easements and land dedicated for public use.
Approval of the plat shall be shown over the signature of the Mayor and
attested to by the City Clerk following receipt of a Mylar reproduction of the
preliminary and final plat as approved. When the area included in the final
plat is located in the unincorporated area of the county, and is not to be
included in the city limits, it shall also be submitted to the county’s Board
for approval. If either the city or county governing body disapproves the final
plat, they shall advise the subdivider in writing of the reasons for such
disapproval.
(2005 Code, § 11-1223)
   (E)   The governing body (City Council or County Supervisors or both) shall
either approve or disapprove the final plat within 60 days after it has been
submitted for final approval. The failure of the governing body of the city or
the Board of County Supervisors to execute an approval of the plat shall be
deemed to be a refusal of the proposed plat.
(2005 Code, § 11-1224)
§ 11-1210 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The foregoing provisions of these regulations to the contrary not
withstanding, an approved preliminary plat may be submitted for final approval
in separate geographic units rather than as a whole; provided, the following
conditions are met.
   (A)   Each unit of a plat of subdivision for single-family residences shall
contain an area of sufficient size based on physical conditions and ability to
install improvements economically. Such units should, if possible, contain at
least 20 lots.
   (B)   The approval of the Planning Commission upon the advice of local
Public Utilities Superintendent and private utility officials as to the
feasibility of such development, in separate units, including the feasibility
of the proposed sequence of development shall be secured.
   (C)   A final plat of at least one unit shall be submitted for approval
within 12 months from the date of approval of the preliminary plat, and final
plats of all such units shall be submitted for approval within three years from
the date that the preliminary plat was approved. The Planning Commission, on
application of the subdivider, may from time to time grant extensions of time
within which to submit such final plats; provided that, each such extension
shall be for no more than one year.
   (D)   All steps required for the approval of final plats, including the
recording thereof, shall be adhered to with respect to each unit so submitted.
(2005 Code, § 11-1225)
§ 11-1211 AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF PLATS FOR SMALL TRACTS; REQUIREMENTS
FOR APPROVAL; APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any other provisions of these regulations to the contrary
notwithstanding, if a proposed plat of subdivision or resubdivision complies
with the requirements of §
11-1210 of these regulations, then the Planning Commission may approve a final
plat of such subdivision or resubdivision when a preliminary plat has not been
submitted by the subdivider and approved by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In order to qualify for approval in the manner provided in §
11-1210, a proposed plat of subdivision shall comply with the following
requirements.
         (a)   The proposed plat of subdivision shall include not more than
five acres.
         (b)   The proposed plat of subdivision shall create not more than five
lots, tracts or parcels of land.
         (c)   No public street or easement of access is sought to be
dedicated, or is contemplated or projected, through (as opposed to adjacent to)
the lot, tract or parcel proposed to be subdivided or resubdivided.
         (d)   The proposed plat of subdivision shall be in the form required
in §§
11-1213 and
11-1214 of these regulations and shall contain all the data, information and
certificates required on final plats by §§
11-1213 and
11-1214 of these regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1226)
   (B)   Final plats submitted for approval pursuant to §
11-1210 shall be filed with the City Clerk so that the plat may be submitted to
the Planning Commission for review. The Planning Commission may require the
subdivider to submit the topographic information listed in §§
11-1213 and
11-1214 whenever the property proposed to be subdivided or resubdivided is
traversed by, or is adjacent to, a known water course, including intermittent
streams.
(2005 Code, § 11-1227)
   (C)   The approval of final plats by the Planning Commission pursuant to §
11-1210 of this article shall be subject to the provisions of §§
11-1208(H) and 11-1208 of these regulations, except insofar as the said
sections require prior approval of, or compliance with, an approval plat.
(2005 Code, § 11-1228)
§ 11-1212 BUILDING AND OTHER PERMITS.
   No building permit, shall be issued for a building or structure on any lot,
tract or parcel of any subdivision that is subject to the provisions of these
regulations until a copy of the recorded plat of subdivision is available for
examination by the official charged with issuing building permits. No such
permits shall be issued until there has been compliance with all of the
provisions of these regulations and conditions of plat approval.
(2005 Code, § 11-1229)
§ 11-1213 CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one
inch equals 100 feet; however, areas over 100 acres may be at a scale of one
inch equals 200 feet.
   (B)   The following general information shall be shown on the preliminary
plat:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision. This name shall not duplicate
or resemble the name of any existing subdivision within the area subject to
this chapter;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale of drawing;
      (3)   An identification clearly stating that the map is a preliminary
plat;
      (4)   Location of the subdivision by measured distances to a section
corner to define the location and boundaries of the tract which will be
subdivided;
      (5)   Name of adjacent subdivisions or, in the case of unplatted land,
the name of the owner or owners of adjacent property;
      (6)   The name and address of the owner, subdivider and engineer or
surveyor;
      (7)   Date of the topographic survey;
      (8)   The following existing conditions shall be shown on the preliminary
plat:
         (a)   The location, width and name of all existing public or private
streets within or adjacent to the tract, together with easements, railroad
rights-of-way and other important features such as section lines and corners,
city boundary lines and monuments;
         (b)   Contour lines or spot elevations related to U.S.G.S. data:
            1.   One- or two-foot contour intervals for ground slopes less than
10%;
            2.   Five-foot contour intervals for ground slopes exceeding 10%;
and
            3.   Spot elevations where the ground is too flat for contours.
         (c)   The location and direction of all water courses and areas
subject to flooding and as additionally defined by any adopted flood hazard
maps;
         (d)   Natural features such as rock out-croppings, marshes, wooded
areas and isolated preservable trees;
         (e)   Existing uses of the property including the location of all
existing structures that will remain on the property after the final plat is
recorded;
         (f)   The horizontal location to the nearest foot, within the
subdivision and in the adjoining streets and property, of existing sanitary
sewers, storm water sewers, water mains, culverts, drain pipes, underground
wiring and gas lines proposed to serve the property to be subdivided. Flow line
elevations shall be shown on sanitary sewers, storm water sewers, culverts and
drain pipes;
         (g)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract, if any; and
         (h)   Location, elevation and description of the benchmark controlling
the vertical survey.
      (9)   The following information with respect to the manner in which the
tract is to be subdivided and developed shall be included on the preliminary
plat:
         (a)   Streets, showing the location, width, names and approximate
grades thereof. The preliminary plat shall show the relationship of all streets
to any projected streets shown on the plat, or to any development plan adopted
by the Planning Commission or governing body or if such development plan has
been completed as suggested by the Planning Commission;
         (b)   Easements showing width and purpose;
         (c)   Lots showing approximate dimensions, minimum lot sizes and
proposed lot and block numbers;
         (d)   Sites, If any, to be allocated for development with other than
single-family dwellings;
         (e)   Location and type of utilities to be installed;
         (f)   Sites, if any, to be dedicated for park, playground or other
public purposes; and
         (g)   Proposed building setback lines, if any.
      (10)   Additional data and information to be submitted with the
preliminary plat. The following data and information shall be submitted in
separate statements and/or maps accompanying the preliminary plat or, if
practical such data and information may be shown on the preliminary plat:
         (a)   Proposed deed restriction, if any, in outline form;
         (b)   A statement of the manner in which it is proposed to finance
improvements and, if a waiver of the provisions of §§
11-1216 of this article is requested, a statement of the improvements that are
to be installed by special assessment; and
         (c)   A statement of the improvements that will be installed by the
developer and the approximate time that such improvements will be completed.
This statement shall contain sufficient detail with respect to the proposed
improvements to permit a determination to be made with respect to whether such
improvements will comply with this article and other applicable statutes,
ordinances and regulations. If the nature of the improvement is such that it is
not practical to prepare and submit all necessary details prior to the approval
of the preliminary plat, then the Planning Commission may waive the submissions
of such details; provided that, the additional data is submitted at least 30
days prior to the date that approval of the final plat is requested.
(2005 Code, § 11-1230)
§ 11-1214 CONTENTS OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   (1)   The final plat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor and
shall be accurately, clearly and legibly drawn in black water-proof India ink
or photographed upon good tracing cloth or Mylar.
      (2)   The page or sheet size shall be 22 inches by 36 inches, or 18
inches by 22 inches.
      (3)   The scale shall not be less than 100 feet per one inch.
      (4)   A variation in scale or sheet size may be allowed where the
Planning Commission determines it is necessary for a proper exhibit of the
subdivision.
      (5)   When more than one sheet is used for any plat, each sheet shall be
numbered consecutively and each such sheet shall contain a notation showing the
whole number of sheets in the plat and its relation to other sheets (e.g.,
sheet one of three sheets).
      (6)   Linear dimensions shall be given in feet and decimals of a foot.
   (B)   The following information shall be shown on the final plat:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The date, scale, north point, legend and controlling topography and
physical features such as water courses, highways and railroads;
      (3)   A legal description of the tract boundaries;
      (4)   The name and address of the owner, subdivider and licensed
professional land surveyor;
      (5)   Reference points of existing surveys identified, related to the
plat by distances, angles and bearings:
         (a)   Section corners and/or adjoining corners of all adjoining
subdivisions, or corners of existing plats, when a replat;
         (b)   Section, township and range;
         (c)   When the city or county has established the centerline of the
street adjacent or within the proposed subdivision, the location of such
centerline and monuments found or reset shall be shown; and
         (d)   All other monuments required to be installed by the provisions
of this article.
      (6)   Tract boundary, block boundary, street and other right-of-way lines
with distances and angles (and/or bearings). Where these lines follow a curve
(all curves must be circular). The central angle, the radius, points of
curvature, length of curve, degree of curvature and length of intermediate
tangents shall be shown;
      (7)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to street lines
unless otherwise shown. Rear lot lines shall be parallel to block or tract
lines unless otherwise indicated. Points of deflection of rear lot lines shall
be indicated by angles and distances;
      (8)   The width of the portion of the streets being dedicated and the
width of any existing right-of-way;
      (9)   All easements shall be denoted by fine dashed lines, clearly
identified and, if already on record, the recorded reference of such easement.
If an easement is not definitely located on record, a statement of such
easement shall be included. The width of the easements, with sufficient ties to
locate it definitely with respect to the subdivision must be shown. If the
easement is being dedicated by the map, it shall be properly referenced in the
owner’s certificate of dedication;
      (10)   Lot number beginning with the number “1” and numbered
consecutively in each block;
      (11)   Block numbers continuing consecutively without omission or
duplication throughout the subdivision. The numbers shall be solid, of
sufficient size and thickness to stand out and so placed as not to obliterate
any figure;
      (12)   Land parcels to be dedicated for any purpose, public or private,
to be distinguished from lots or tracts intended for sale;
      (13)   Building setback lines, if any;
      (14)   The name of each street shown on the subdivision plat;
      (15)   The names of adjoining subdivisions; and
      (16)   The following certificates, which may be combined or omitted in
part where appropriate:
         (a)   A certificate signed by the licensed professional land surveyor
responsible for the final plat. This signature of the preparer shall be
accompanied by his or her seal;
         (b)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record, title or interest in the land subdivided, and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the said subdivision map;
         (c)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating to
the public all parcels of land shown on the final plat and intended for any
public use, except those parcels which are intended for the exclusive use of
the lot owners of the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and
servants;
         (d)   The acknowledgment of a notary in the following form:
 
State of Nebraska, County of Phelps, ss:
 
Be it remembered that on this                               day of                                    , 20          , before me a notary public in and for
said County and State, came                                                      to me personally known to be the same person(s) who executed the
foregoing certificate and duly acknowledged the execution thereof as his or her voluntary act and deed. In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand
and affixed my notarial seal the day and year above written.
 
(Seal)                                                                               Notary Public
 
My commission expires                                                        .
 
 
         (e)   The certificate of the Planning Commission in the following
form:
 
This plat of                                                              has been submitted to and approved by the Holdrege Planning
Commission, Holdrege, Nebraska, and is hereby transmitted to the City Council of the City of Holdrege, Nebraska, with the recommendation that
such plat be approved as proposed.
 
Dated this                            day of                                         , 20            .
Holdrege Planning Commission
 
By                                                                      , Chairperson
                                                                      , Secretary
 
 
         (f)   In cases where the subdivision is to be included in the city
limits, the approval and acceptance by the City Council in the following form:
 
The plat and dedications thereon are approved and accepted by the City Council as an addition to the city this              day of
                                     , 20               .
 
                                                                  , Mayor
                                                                  , City Clerk
 
 
         (g)   In cases where the subdivision is not to be included in the city
limits, the approval by the City Council in the following form:
 
The plat is approved by the City Council this                        day of                                          ,
20              .
 
, Mayor
                                                      , City Clerk
 
 
         (h)   The approval of the plat by the Board of County Supervisors, in
the following form:
 
The plat is hereby approved by the Board of County Supervisors, Phelps County, Nebraska, this                        
day of                                       , 20            .
 
                                                    , Chairperson
                                                    , County Clerk
 
 
         (i)   The certificate of the County Clerk in the following form:
 
State of Nebraska, County of Phelps, ss:
 
This is to certify that this instrument was filed for record in the County Clerk’s Office on the                             day of
                                    , 20                , at                  o’clock, and is duly recorded in Book             , Page
             of                                      records.
 
                                                   , County Clerk
                                                   , Deputy
 
 
         (j)   Provision of all other certifications, approvals and acceptances
which are now, or which may hereafter be required by a statute, ordinance or
regulation.
   (C)   The following additional data shall be submitted with the final plat:
      (1)   A title report by an abstract or a title insurance company, or an
attorney’s opinion of title, showing the name of the owner of the land and all
other persons who have an interest in, or an encumbrance on the plat. The
consent of all such persons shall be shown on the plat;
      (2)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the subdivision; and
      (3)   A copy of the “error of closure” calculations for the outer
boundary of the subdivision and each block contained therein.
(2005 Code, § 11-1231)
§ 11-1215 LOT SPLITS; GENERAL INTENT; APPLICATION PROCEDURE; 120-DAY OBJECTION
PERIOD FOR CONVEYANCES NOT IN COMPLIANCE; APPLICATION FOR WAIVER AND NOTICE OF
CONVEYANCE; APPROVAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to approve or disapprove
lot splits in accordance with the following regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1232)
   (B)   Requests for lot split approval shall be made by the owner of the land
to the City Clerk. Four copies of a drawing to scale of lots involved if there
are no structures thereon, or if structures are located on any part of the lot
being split, four copies of a survey of the lot(s) and the location of the
structure(s) thereon, together with the precise nature, location and dimensions
of the split, shall accompany the application. The application shall be
accompanied by the names and addresses of all persons to receive notices.
Written notices shall be given to all owners of land within 200 feet of the
property proposed to be split. Such owners shall have ten days from the date of
notification to notify the City Clerk of any protests they may have concerning
the lot split. The ten-day waiting period may be waived upon submission in
writing of statements from those to be notified that they have no objection to
the proposed lot split.
(2005 Code, § 11-1233)
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor and Council of the city hereby retroactively waive the
120-day period provided by Neb. RS 76-2,110 subject to the approval of each
conveyance by the City Zoning Administrator or his or her duly appointed
representative.
      (2)   In the event that the City Zoning Administrator or his or her
designated officer disapprove the subject conveyance for any reason whatsoever,
the application for waiver or notice of conveyance shall be presented to the
City Council for review and determination.
      (3)   In the event that the City Council refuses to approve the said
application for waiver or the conveyance for which notice has been received, it
shall establish a date when the matter can be aired at a public hearing. After
which, the City Council shall either waive or deny the subject conveyance.
(2005 Code, § 11-1233.01)
   (D)   Approval or disapproval of lot splits shall be made based on the
following guidelines:
      (1)   No lot split shall be approved if:
         (a)   A new street or alley is needed or proposed;
         (b)   A vacation of streets, alleys, setback lines, access control on
easements is required or proposed;
         (c)   If such action will result in significant increases in service
requirements (e.g., utilities, schools, traffic control, streets and the like)
or will interfere with maintaining existing service levels (e.g., additional
curb cuts, repaying and the like);
         (d)   There is less street right-of-way than required by these
regulations or the Comprehensive Plan unless such dedication can be made by
separate instrument;
         (e)   All easement requirements have not been satisfied;
         (f)   If such split will result in a tract without direct access to a
street; and
         (g)   A substandard sized lot or parcel will be created.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may make such additional requirements as
deemed necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of existing land
development regulations and governing body policy. Requirements may include,
but not be limited to, installation of public facilities, dedication of right-
of- way and easements, and submission of covenants for the protection of other
landowners in the original subdivision.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall, in writing, either approve with or
without conditions or disapprove the lot split within 30 days of application.
If approved, and after all conditions have been met, the Planning Commission
Chairman shall sign and furnish a certificate of approval to be affixed to the
lot split survey, and a certified copy thereof shall be filed with the Register
of Deeds, the official designated to issue building or occupancy permits and a
copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(2005 Code, § 11-1234)
(Ord. 906, passed 10-5-1982)
§ 11-1216 DESIGN STANDARDS; SCOPE; DEVELOPMENT PLAN; ACCESS; PARKS,
PLAYGROUNDS, OPEN SPACE, SCHOOLS, STREETS AND PUBLIC FACILITY SITES; STREETS,
LAYOUT AND DESIGN; BLOCKS; LOTS; EASEMENTS; BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
SUBDIVISION; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All subdivisions of land subject to these regulations shall conform to
the design standards of this section.
(2005 Code, § 11-1235)
   (B)   No subdivision shall conflict with the Comprehensive Plan of the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1236)
   (C)   All lots located in any subdivision shall be served directly by a
public street; except that, private streets may be permitted as a part of a
planned unit development or equivalent thereto.
(2005 Code, § 11-1237)
   (D)   The proposed subdivision of land should provide open spaces suitably
located and of reasonable size for parks, playgrounds, play lots and other
recreational areas as well as reservation of land for school sites, fire
station sites, other public facilities and future streets (such as freeways).
The Planning Commission, based on the Comprehensive Plan, may require as a
condition precedent to approval of any subdivision plat.
      (1)   The said subdivider offers to sell to the appropriate public body,
agency or authority, lands, sites and locations for parks, playgrounds, open
space, schools, streets (e.g., freeways and expressways) or other public
facilities; however, nothing herein shall be construed as to prohibiting the
subdivider from making an offer of dedication of such lands. As soon as the
preliminary plat has been approved, the Planning Commission shall give 45 days’
notice to the governing body, agency or department that it appears that lands
should be considered for public acquisition. If, within that 45 days, the body
receiving notice fails to act or submit a negative report on acquisition, then
the subdivision and design thereof shall be treated as if no such request for
land had been made.
      (2)   If the body receiving notice replies in writing that they desire to
acquire land within the subdivision, they shall have an additional 45 days
after making such reply to make arrangements for such land acquisition.
      (3)   The time allocated for making the above determination may be
extended with the mutual consent of the subdivider and the agency involved.
(2005 Code, § 11-1238)
   (E)   (1)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall conform to the general development plan and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety and their appropriate relation to
the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
      (2)   Where such is not shown on the General Development Plan, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
         (a)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding areas; or
         (b)   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by
the Planning Commission to meet a particular situation where topographic or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
      (3)   Local streets shall be laid out so that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   (a)   If a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
limited access highway or arterial street, the Planning Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage with screening planting contained in
a non-access reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear
service alleys or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
         (b)   If a subdivision borders on, or contains a railroad right-of-way
or a limited access highway, the Planning Commission may require streets or
easements approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. Such
distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separations.
      (5)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited,
except where their control is placed with the governing body under conditions
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Street jogs are to be avoided on arterial and collector streets. On
local streets, centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall be avoided.
      (7)   Wherever possible, there shall be an inside tangent at least 50
feet in length introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector
streets.
      (8)   (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to provide for horizontal
sight distances on all curves. These distances shall be:
            1.   Local streets: 200 feet;
            2.   Collector streets: 300 feet; and
            3.   Arterial streets: 500 feet.
         (b)   The sight distance shall be measured within street rights-of-way
from a height of four feet above the proposed pavement surface in the right-
hand lane of the roadway.
      (9)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 80
degrees.
      (10)   (a)   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the General
Development Plan, and where not shown thereon, shall not be less than as
follows:
 
Street Type                           Right-of-Way in Feet
                                      100 feet, except that 150 feet of right-
                                      of-way shall be required within 350 feet
Arterial                              from the intersection of the centerlines
                                      of an arterial street with any other
                                      arterial or collector street
Collector                             80 feet
Frontage roads (with two-way traffic) 40 feet
Local, for commercial areas           80 feet
Local, for industrial areas           60 feet
Local, for residential areas          60 feet
 
         (b)   The foregoing rights-of-way shall be the minimum required to be
dedicated for street purposes, except as provided. Any additional right-of-way
required above the minimum shall be obtained at city and/or county obligation.
      (11)   Widths of all roadways, alleys and sidewalks shall be in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Urban subdivisions:
Roadway Type Roadway Width (Back of Curb to Back of Curb)
Roadway Type                        Roadway Width (Back of Curb to Back of
                                    Curb)
Alley                               18 feet
Arterials                           52 feet or more (variable)
Industrial and commercial collector 43 feet
Local residential                   36 feet
Marginal access                     31 feet
Residential collector               43 feet
Sidewalks                           4 feet
 
         (b)   Suburban subdivisions:
 
Collector, commercial or industrial with no parking 40 feet
Local residential                                   24 feet
Sidewalks                                           Not required
 
      (12)   Half streets shall be avoided, except for arterial streets and
collector streets where applicable, or where they are essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; or, when the Planning Commission finds that
it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half of the
street when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever a half street, or
portion thereof, is existing and adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the
other half of the street based on standards in subsection (E)(10) above shall
be platted within such tract.
      (13)   Dead end streets, designed to be so permanently, shall not be
longer than seven times the average lot width or 600 feet, whichever is less,
and shall have a turn-around at the closed end that has an outside roadway
diameter of at least 86 feet and a street property line diameter of at least
120 feet, or shall have an alternate turn-around area such as hammer-heads and
the like, as may be approved by the Planning Commission as providing service
equal to the foregoing requirements.
      (14)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be used where
they are or would be logical extensions of existing streets even though
separated by undeveloped land. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the governing body.
      (15)   Roadway grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed the following
with due allowance for reasonable vertical curves:
 
Roadway Type                       Percent Grade
Arterial                           4%
Collector                          5%
Local                              6%
Marginal access and frontage roads 6%
 
      (16)   No roadway grade shall be less than 0.5% unless approved by the
appropriate engineer. Greater percentages of grade may be required where
necessary to provide adequate drainage.
      (17)   (a)   Roadway pavement at intersections shall be rounded by the
following minimum radii:
 
Type of Roadway         Intersecting With                Minimum Curb Radii
Business, commercial or Business, commercial or
industrial collector or industrial collector or arterial 50 feet
arterial
Local residential       Local residential                20 feet
Local residential       Collector                        30 feet
Local residential       Arterial                         30 feet
 
         (b)   Right-of-way lines may be required to be rounded by an arc
having at least the same radii as the arc of the curb when normal right-of-way
requirements are not sufficient to allow the construction of roadways having
the radii set out alone.
(2005 Code, § 11-1239)
   (F)   (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts;
except that, the Planning Commission may waive this requirement where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street
loading, unloading and parking spaces consistent and adequate for the uses
proposed. Alleys in residential districts are to be discouraged.
      (2)   When provided, the width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
      (3)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but, where necessary, a turning radius shall be provided to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (4)   Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, such alleys shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities
at the dead end.
(2005 Code, § 11-1240)
   (G)   (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
         (a)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable for the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         (b)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
         (c)   Need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
         (d)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      (2)   A block should not exceed 1,300 feet in length, unless such block
is adjacent to a limited access highway or arterial street or unless the
previous adjacent layout or topographical conditions justify a variation of
this requirement.
      (3)   All blocks shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of lots,
unless a different arrangement is required in order to comply with subsections
(E)(4) and (E)(12) above or is permitted by subsection (G)(6) below.
      (4)   Blocks may be irregular in shape; provided, they are harmonious
with the overall pattern of blocks in the proposed subdivision; and, provided,
their design meets the requirements of lot standards, traffic flow and control
considerations and development plan requirements.
      (5)   In blocks of 800 feet or more in length, a public crosswalk for
pedestrian travel may be required to provide access to public or private
facilities such as schools or parks. Such crosswalk shall have a right-of-way
not less than ten feet and extend entirely across such block at approximately
the midpoint of the length of such block. A sidewalk shall be placed along the
length of such right-of-way, and constructed in accordance with the
requirements for sidewalk improvements in §
11-1217 of this article.
(2005 Code, § 11-1241)
   (H)   (1)   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the
minimum building setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and for the type of development and use contemplated.
      (2)   The maximum depth of all residential lots shall not exceed two and
one-half times the width thereof. For all other lots, the depth shall not
exceed three times the width.
      (3)   The minimum widths of residential lots measured at the setback
lines thereof shall not be less than:
         (a)   Sixty feet when the lot contains an area of 6,000 square feet,
but less than 9,000 square feet;
         (b)   Seventy-five feet when the lot contains an area of 9,000 square
feet or more, but less than 15,000 square feet;
         (c)   Ninety feet when the lot contains an area of 15,000 square feet
or more, but less than 20,000 square feet;
         (d)   One hundred feet when the lot contains an area of 20,000 square
feet or more, but less than 30,000 square feet;
         (e)   One hundred twenty-five feet when the lot contains an area of
30,000 square feet or more, but less than one acre; and
         (f)   One hundred fifty feet when the lot contains an area of one acre
or more.
      (4)   Where lots front upon a cul-de-sac or curved street having a radius
of 200 feet or less the minimum lot widths set forth in subsection (G)(3)
above, shall be measured at the building setback line along an arc parallel to
the right-of-way of such cul-de-sac or curved street. Such lots shall also be
laid out so that their lot frontage, as measured on the arc of such right-of-
way line, is not less than 50% of the required lot width measured at the
building setback line.
      (5)   The area of the street right-of-way line shall not be included and
calculated in the area of the lot with respect to minimum lot area requirements
of these regulations or of any zoning ordinance applicable to the property.
Lots shall be required to have more than the minimum area dimensions provided
for in this section where such greater area or dimensions are required to meet
the yard requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   There shall be no double frontage lots for individual dwellings
(e.g., single- and two-family units), except where the lots abut upon a limited
access highway or arterial street or where the topography of the land prevents
reasonable subdivision in small units. Double frontage lots shall not have
vehicular access between such lots and an abutting limited access highway or
arterial street; moreover, lots abutting such highway or street shall have an
additional depth of ten feet from the required depth in order to allow a
protective screening between the lot and such highway or street if such
screening is not required under subsection (E)(4) above.
      (7)   The depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for
commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-
street service and parking facilities required by the type of use and
development contemplated.
      (8)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from an orientation to both streets.
      (9)   Reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except where such are
essential to provide a separation of residential development from limited
access highways and arterial streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet,
and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the
line of lots abutting such limited access highway, arterial street or other
disadvantageous use if such screening is not required under subsection (E)(4)
above.
      (10)   Lots on arterial street intersections and all acute angle
intersections which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, are likely to
be dangerous to traffic movement shall have a radius of 20 feet at the
intersection of street rights-of-way. On business, commercial and industrial
lots, a chord may be substituted for a circular arc.
(2005 Code, § 11-1242)
   (I)   Easements shall be provided for utilities where necessary and centered
on rear or side lot lines and shall be at least 20 feet wide along rear lot
lines and ten feet wide along side lot lines; except that, easements for street
lighting purposes shall not in any event be required to exceed ten feet. Side
lot easements when needed for other than street lighting purposes may exceed
ten feet. If a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel
or stream, then a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way shall be
provided. Such easement or right-of-way shall conform substantially to the
lines of such water course and shall be of such width or construction, or both,
as may be necessary to provide adequate storm water drainage and for access or
maintenance thereof. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection
therewith.
(2005 Code, § 11-1243)
   (J)   (1)   Streets. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
regulation, the minimum width of streets adjacent to areas designed, proposed
or zoned for business, commercial or industrial use may be increased by the
Planning Commission to such extent as the Commission may deem necessary to
assure the free flow of through traffic without interference from parked or
parking motor vehicles.
      (2)   Blocks. Blocks intended for business, commercial or industrial use
shall be designed specifically for such purpose, with adequate spaces set aside
for off-street parking and loading.
      (3)   Marginal street access. When lots or blocks in a proposed business,
commercial or industrial subdivision front on any limited access highway or
arterial street, the subdivider may be required to dedicate and improve a
marginal access street to provide ingress and egress to and from such lots or
blocks.
(2005 Code, § 11-1244)
   (K)   (1)   A comprehensive group development, including the townhouses,
garden apartment complexes and condominiums together with necessary drives and
ways of access may be approved by the Planning Commission although the design
of the project does not include standard street, lot and subdivision
arrangements; provided that, departure from the standards of regulations can be
made without destroying their intent.
      (2)   For all condominium plats, the following shall apply.
         (a)   The plat must be in three dimensions with vertical control to
U.S.G.S. datum.
         (b)   A benchmark must be set on or near the building at ground level
for future reference in locating units in the plat.
         (c)   Each floor plan of the permanent structure must be shown as well
as basement and roof levels and area of plot plan. The dimensions and ties
shown for each parcel must be definite enough with respect to both vertical and
horizontal control so that the boundaries of each apartment may be accurately
located by the use of standard survey methods.
         (d)   All unit or apartment property lines shall be the interior
surfaces of the perimeter walls, floor, ceiling, windows and doors thereof.
         (e)   A condominium plat must contain all of the certifications and
approvals required for any plat. There must also be an approval by the
officials authorized to issue building or occupancy permits indicating that the
building plans have been approved by his or her office and that the plat is in
agreement with the building plan.
(2005 Code, § 11-1245)
§ 11-1217 INSTALLATION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; SUBDIVISION TYPES; ENGINEERING
JURISDICTIONS; REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; EXCEPTIONS FOR EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS;
AGREEMENT, BOND, DEPOSIT, PETITIONS AND ORDINANCES GUARANTEEING INSTALLATION;
AVAILABILITY OF CITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES; VACATION OF UNDEVELOPED
SUBDIVISION; SUBMISSION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, subdivisions shall be classified
into the following types:
         (a)   Urban subdivisions. All subdivisions lying within the city and
those subdivisions in unincorporated areas having or intended to have a density
of more than one dwelling unit per 20,000 square foot lot, and all subdivisions
or portions thereof, for commercial, industrial and public or semi-public
purposes (directly related to an urban residential subdivision); and
         (b)   Suburban subdivisions. All other lands in incorporated or
unincorporated areas required to be platted either by statute or by these
subdivision regulations.
      (2)   In interpreting this section, any time an ownership of a tract of
land is split by the application of the extraterritorial zoning limit as
defined in §
11-1204 of this article, said tract shall be considered to be within the city’s
jurisdiction only if over 50% of the area of the tract lies directly within
such jurisdiction. If over 50% of the tract lies within the city’s
jurisdiction, then the entire tract shall be considered to lie within this
jurisdiction.
(2005 Code, § 11-1246)
   (B)   In setting standards and specifications approving engineering
drawings, inspecting improvements, recommending acceptance of improvements,
preparing any petition forms and establishing the amount of surety for
guaranteeing the installation of such improvements, the following engineers,
departments, agencies or personnel shall be designated as the “appropriate
engineer” for the type of required improvement listed:
Improvement Governing Body
Improvement                                       Governing Body
Benchmarks and monuments                          City Council
Fire hydrants                                     City Council
Roadways, alley, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and City Council
street drainage
Sanitary sewer system                             City Council1
Storm sewer system                                City Council2
Street signs                                      City Council
Underground wiring                                Utility company involved
Water supply systems                              City Council
NOTES TO TABLE:
1With the approval of the state’s Board of Health and the county’s Health
Department when required by law.
2On major water courses or drainage channels which may have a relationship
to the drainage in the unincorporated areas, the facilities and
improvements.
 
(2005 Code, § 11-1247)
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for any lot in any subdivision
until the subdivider or lot owner shall install or provide for the Installation
of the following facilities and improvements for such lot:
      (1)   All roadways, alleys, curbs, gutters and street drainage facilities
in accordance with the standards set by the city. All urban streets shall be
constructed of an approved all weather hard surfaced material connecting with
an approved all weather street in the city and no gravel or sanded roadways
shall be constructed in the urban area or to serve urban service standard. All
suburban or rural roadways required by these regulations shall be constructed
with gravel or sanded surface and no other materials such as oiled surface,
macadam or similar materials shall be used. If other than gravel or sanded
surface materials are used, urban construction standards as described above
shall be used;
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be required in accordance with the standards set by
the city under the following conditions.
         (a)   Urban. On both sides of the street wherever urban streets are
required, except:
            1.   Along streets adjacent to large non-pedestrian generating uses
as may be determined by the Planning Commission (e.g., local streets along
cemeteries); streets along parks that are developed with walks and trails; and
            2.   Where the lots have no direct access to the abutting street.
The sidewalk shall be guaranteed from curb to curb of intersecting streets
rather than to property lines. Sidewalks shall be constructed as near as
possible to property lines rather than curb lines.
         (b)   Suburban. Although not normally required, the City Council may
require sidewalks when needed to service pedestrian traffic flow leading to
schools, parks or places of public assembly.
      (3)   All sanitary sewer and sewerage treatment systems are as approved
by the state’s Board of Health.
         (a)   1.   Laterals in accordance with the standards of the city. On a
temporary basis, where permanent facilities are in the planning or construction
stage, temporary facilities may be used; provided, lot sizes shall be those
designed for use with a municipal system and provided restrictive covenants or
other such devices shall be used to guarantee the proper spacing and lot areas
for development needed for proper utilization of the temporary facilities. If
individual treatment systems are used, then the minimum aggregate building site
areas prescribed in subsection (C)(4) below shall be followed.
            2.   Mains and submains shall be installed at the direction of the
governing body. The cost of such installation may be assessed to properties
benefitted or paid from other funds.
         (b)   Within unincorporated areas designated for urbanized growth as
shown on an adopted general development plan, or on a map approved by the
governing body which shows areas designated for future growth or showing areas
of future sewer line extensions, the following requirements shall apply:
            1.   Laterals in accordance with the standards of the city.
Temporary facilities may be used as provided in subsection (C)(3)(a) above; and
            2.   Mains (and submains) shall be installed at the direction of
the governing body. The extensions of such mains shall be made at the
discretion of the governing body and shall be limited to the extent that is
reasonable, based on the expected rate of growth and the utilization of such
line compared to the cost of such extension. The cost of such construction
shall be paid by the subdivider and also shall provide a treatment system (such
as a “package plant”) satisfactory to the appropriate engineer. When the
subdivider is required to provide the main sewer, treatment facilities or
submain sewer, the governing body may participate in such costs to the degree
that it determines the public interest is served.
         (c)   For urban subdivisions in other areas, the subdivider shall
provide municipal-type sanitary sewer service approved by the city.
         (d)   In all other areas, individual treatment systems may be used;
provided, there shall be at least 20,000 square feet of lot area per dwelling
unit; and, provided further that, additional lot area may be required in those
areas suspected of having a high water table or having unsuitable soil
conditions when based on percolation tests. In those areas unable to support
individual treatment systems, the subdivision shall not be approved unless a
substitute method of sewage disposal is provided as approved by the city.
         (e)   In any of the above requirements calling for, or dependent on,
action by a governing body or agencies or departments thereof, when the
governing body does not fulfill its obligation, within a period of time (not to
exceed five years) determined by the Planning Commission at the time of final
plat approval, then the requirements for municipal-type sewer facilities shall
be void and the subdivider may proceed with approved individual treatment
systems.
      (4)   (a)   A water supply system in accordance with the standards of the
city shall be provided in all areas where lateral sanitary sewers are required
and in all urban subdivisions.
         (b)   In all other areas, a water supply approved by the county’s
Department of Health shall be provided. In those areas where there is a water
supply system, mains shall be of such size as to support the use of fire
hydrants as required by subsection (C)(5) below.
      (5)   Fire hydrants, in accordance with the standards of the city, shall
be provided wherever there shall be required a water supply system;
      (6)   A storm sewer system, separate and independent of the sanitary
sewer system, meeting all of the specifications and requirements of the city.
Such storm sewer shall be connected to any existing storm sewer system, where
available, of the city, or the system of the county or to the nearest major
water channel, if such connection is not available, other adequate means for
the discharge of such storm sewer system shall be provided by the subdivider;
      (7)   Street signs of such location, type and size as shall be approved
by the city, giving due regard to the prevailing type, size and pattern of
location utilized throughout the area;
      (8)   (a)   Underground wiring in residential subdivisions, including
both electric power and telephone service, except:
            1.   For lines operated at 3,500 volts or greater;
            2.   Appurtenances serving such lines which may be mounted on the
ground, such as transformers, transformer pads and telephone service pedestals;
and
            3.   For those proposed subdivisions or replats of existing
subdivisions located in areas which presently have an overhead type of
distribution system.
         (b)   All such construction and installation shall be under contract
with the utility. Construction or installation shall occur after sanitary sewer
mains, if any, are in place. CATV, if installed, shall be placed underground in
accordance with the above requirements.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as to requiring
underground installation of lines beyond the boundaries of the area contained
in the preliminary plat.
      (9)   Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, lot corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the city. Benchmarks may also be required as determined necessary
by the city. The monuments and benchmarks shall be of such material, size and
length as may be approved by the appropriate engineer.
(2005 Code, § 11-1248)
   (D)   (1)   Where the proposed subdivision is a resubdivision or concerns an
area presently having any or all required improvements set out in subsection
(C) above, and where such improvements meet the requirements of said subsection
(C) above and are in good condition as determined by the city, no further
provision need be made by the subdividers to duplicate such improvements.
However, where such existing improvements do not meet the requirements of
subsection (C) above, the subdivider shall provide for the repair, correction
or replacement of such improvements so that all improvements will then meet the
aforesaid requirements of subsection (C) above.
      (2)   Where the proposed subdivision is a resubdivision or concerns an
area presently abutting or containing any existing public street of less than
the minimum required right-of-way width or roadway width, land shall be
dedicated so as to provide a minimum street right-of-way width established by
these regulations and/or Planning Commission policy, and the subdivider of such
proposed subdivision shall provide an additional roadway pavement meeting the
minimum standards set by these regulations and the appropriate engineer. The
city shall determine what adjustment to make where the aforesaid widenings
merge with existing streets which are of smaller width at the boundary of such
proposed subdivision. The city may reduce the minimum roadway required by these
regulations to match an existing roadway system if the extension of such
roadway is already improved at each end of the roadway in the subdivision and
the roadway in the subdivision to be reduced is two blocks or less in length.
The city may also require lanes to be painted on such widened streets
designated driving lanes and parking areas. The foregoing provisions requiring
the widening of pavement may be waived by the Planning Commission when the
length of such pavement is less than 135 feet.
(2005 Code, § 11-1249)
   (E)   Except for monuments and underground wiring, one of the following
methods shall be used by the subdivider to guarantee that improvements required
by these regulations can or will be installed in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications.
      (1)   The effective date of a valid ordinance creating the improvement
district and in the case of a street improvement district, the expiration of 20
days after the first publication of the notice of creation of district without
receipt of any valid petition of land owners in objection to such district.
      (2)   Fiscal sureties may be offered and the following shall apply.
         (a)   Upon final approval of plans or specifications for required
improvements, the owners and/or the subdivider of the land proposed to be
subdivided shall enter into an agreement with the city, under which the owners
and/or subdivider agree to install such required improvements at their own
expense in accordance with the theretofore approved plans and specifications,
within the time prescribed by the provisions of these regulations. Such
agreement shall be conditioned upon the approval of the final plat of
subdivision.
         (b)   Simultaneously with the execution of the agreement provided for
in subsection (E)(2)(a) above, the owner and the subdivider of the land
proposed to be subdivided shall furnish a corporate completion bond by a firm
authorized to do business in the state with good and sufficient sureties
thereon, or a cashier’s check, escrow account or irrevocable letter of credit
in favor of the governing body, in the amount of the estimated cost as approved
by the official responsible for setting and enforcing the applicable design and
construction standards of the installation of the required improvements as
aforesaid. Such financial guarantee shall be conditioned upon the approval of
the final plat and further conditioned upon the actual completion and
installation of such required improvements within two years from the date that
the final plat is approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Simultaneously with the execution of the agreement provided for
in subsection (E)(2)(a) above, if the subdivider furnishes a corporate
completion bond, he or she shall also deposit in escrow with the governing body
who is to accept such improvements, cash in the amount of 15% of the cost of
all improvements to be made in accordance with the plans and specifications for
required improvements therefor approved by the Planning Commission. If a
subdivider furnishes a cashier’s check, escrow account or irrevocable letter of
credit in favor of the governing body, 15% of the amount of such cashier’s
check, escrow account or letter of credit of the governing body shall be held
as a deposit in escrow after the final completion of such improvements. The
subdivider shall agree that such deposit in escrow may be held by the governing
body for a period of 18 months after the final completion of such improvements
for the purpose of:
            1.   Guaranteeing and securing the correction of any defect in
material or workmanship furnished for such improvements, latent in character
and not discernible at the time of final inspection or acceptance by the
governing body; and
            2.   Guarantee against any damage to such improvements by reason of
the settling of the ground, base or foundation there of. Such escrow agreement
shall also provide that, as such defects have so developed, that the deposit
may be applied by the governing body for any amounts incurred correcting such
defects; and that the balance of such deposit, if any, held at the end of such
18 month period shall be returned by the governing body to the depositor, or
paid to the order of the depositor without payment of interest by the governing
body.
         (d)   Prior to offering any improvement to the governing body, the
subdivider shall furnish good and sufficient guarantee that all indebtedness
incurred for supplies, materials, labor furnished or engineering and
professional services in the construction of improvements shall have been paid
in full and that there are no claims for damage or suits against such
contractor involving said improvement.
      (3)   Valid petitions under state law for street and/or alley
improvements to the governing body of the city pursuant to Neb. RS 16-624 may
be submitted as a means of guaranteeing to the governing bodies the authority
to install improvements at such time as they deem appropriate.
      (4)   Monuments and benchmarks shall be installed by the subdivider
before the subdivision plat is released for recording with the Register of
Deeds.
      (5)   The subdivider shall, prior to the release of the subdivision plat,
submit a letter from the utility(ties) involved stating that satisfactory
arrangements have been made by the subdivider guaranteeing the installation of
underground wiring.
(2005 Code, § 11-1250)
   (F)   The city shall not be obligated to provide city water service, sewer
service or facilities; maintenance of any sewer lines, water lines, treatment
facilities, or streets until such subdivision is within the city limits of said
city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1251)
   (G)   When no lots on a plat of a subdivision have been sold, the subdivider
may request the city to approve the vacation of the plat prior to the time that
the improvements covered by these regulations are installed and, if such
request is approved and such plat is vacated, all fiscal sureties may be
returned to the subdivider.
(2005 Code, § 11-1252)
   (H)   If petitions are submitted to meet the requirements of this section,
the subdivider shall so indicate at the time of submission of the preliminary
plat. If the petition method is authorized by the Planning Commission,
petitions shall accompany the final plat and shall be acceptable for submission
to the governing body.
(2005 Code, § 11-1253)
§ 11-1218 IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES; FINAL IMPROVEMENT PLANS; CONTENT OF
ENGINEERING DRAWINGS; REVIEW OF PLANS; APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION;
CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS; INSPECTION; INSPECTION PROCEDURES; FINAL
INSPECTION; REPORT TO PLANNING COMMISSION AND GOVERNING BODY; ACCEPTANCE OF
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In other instances when petitions have not been authorized for
submission, upon the approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
have prepared by a licensed professional engineer (which may be contracted for,
with any governmental agency or utility), engineering drawings for proposed
required improvements containing the data and information specified in
subsection (B) below. Such drawings shall be certified by a licensed
professional engineer, and shall be submitted in duplicate to the city at least
30 days prior to the date that approval of the final plat is requested. Failure
to do so will be considered automatic consent to an extension of or a waiver by
the subdivider of any time limitation for plat approval.
(2005 Code, § 11-1254)
   (B)   Engineering drawings for required improvements shall contain the
following data and information:
      (1)   Plans, details, specifications and cost estimates for roadway and
sidewalk construction, including plans, profile indicating existing topography
and elevation, indicating curb and sidewalk elevation, intersection control
elevation and paving geometries for each street with a typical cross section of
the roadway. The profiles of grade lines shall be shown to a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet horizontal and one inch equals ten feet vertical. This
information shall be shown on standard plan and profile sheets unless otherwise
required by the appropriate engineer;
      (2)   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimates of
proposed storm drainage improvements;
      (3)   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimates of
proposed water distribution systems and proposed water supply facilities and
water hydrants, if any;
      (4)   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimates of
sewage systems and of sewage treatment plants, if any;
      (5)   Grading plans for all lots and other sites in the subdivision;
      (6)   When unusual conditions exist, the Planning Commission may require
such additional plans, specifications and drawings as may be necessary for an
adequate review of the improvements to be installed;
      (7)   All plans shall be based on city U.S.G.S. datum for vertical
control; and
      (8)   All plans for underground wiring shall be prepared by or at the
direction of the utility involved.
(2005 Code, § 11-1255)
   (C)   The city or agency responsible for determining specifications and
standards referred to in §
11-1217(C) of this article shall review all engineering drawings in order to
determine whether such drawings are consistent with the approved preliminary
plat and comply with their design standards. If such drawings are consistent
and so comply, the reviewing official shall forward to the Planning Commission,
a notice that they so conform or comply. In the event that the drawings do not
so conform or comply, the reviewing official shall notify the subdivider of the
specific manner in which such drawings do not so conform or comply, and he or
she may then correct such drawings. If such drawings are not corrected, the
reviewing official shall forward to the Planning Commission a notice as to the
items of non-conformity or non-compliance.
(2005 Code, § 11-1256)
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall approve a final plat only when the
approval of the city has been received that the plans and engineering drawings
have been approved or that the appropriate petitions, if authorized, have been
filed with the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1257)
   (E)   No improvements shall be constructed nor shall any work preliminary
thereto be done until such time as a final plat and the engineering drawings
accompanying it shall have been approved and there shall have been compliance
with all of the requirements relating to the agreement, bond and deposit
specified in §
11-1217(E) of these regulations.
(2005 Code, § 11-1258)
   (F)   All improvements constructed or erected shall be subject to inspection
by the city or official responsible for setting and enforcing the applicable
design and construction standards of the required improvement. The cost
attributable to all inspections required by this regulation shall be charged to
and paid by the subdivider. Before any required inspections take place, the
subdivider may be required to post a deposit with the City Clerk, to cover the
cost of such inspections. The subdivider shall give at least 48 hours’ written
notification to such official prior to the performance of any of the following
work:
      (1)   All phases of roadway and sidewalk construction; and
      (2)   All phases of construction including, but not limited to, water
lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer, underground wiring and other required
improvements.
(2005 Code, § 11-1259)
   (G)   After notice is received as specified in subsection (F) above, the
official designated in subsection (F) above may conduct an on-site inspection
to determine that the work complies with the approved engineering plans and
specifications. If, in the opinion of such official, such work does not comply
with such final drawings, he or she shall have authority to order that all such
work shall be terminated until such time as necessary steps are taken to
correct any defects or deficiencies. Upon the correction of such defects or
deficiencies, the subdivider shall again notify the official as provided in
subsection (F) above.
(2005 Code, § 11-1260)
   (H)   Upon completion of ail improvements within the area covered by the
final plat, the subdivider shall notify the official designated in subsection
(F) above, who shall thereupon conduct a final Inspection of all improvements
installed. If such final inspection indicates that there are any defects or
deficiencies in any such improvements as installed, or if there are any
deviations in such improvements as installed from the final engineering plans
and specifications, he or she shall notify the subdivider in writing of such
defects, deficiencies or deviations and the subdivider shall, at his or her
sole cost and expense, correct such defects or deviations within six months of
the date of notification. When such defects, deficiencies or deviations have
been corrected, the subdivider shall notify the official that the improvements
are again ready for final inspection.
(2005 Code, § 11-1261)
   (I)   If a final inspection indicates that all improvements as installed
contain no defects, deficiencies or deviations, within ten days from the
completion of such inspection, the official shall certify to the Planning
Commission, the governing body and utility that all improvements have been
installed in conformity with the engineering plans and specifications
accompanying the final plat. The receipt of such notification by the governing
body or utility shall constitute the date on which the 18-month period
specified in §
11-1217(E)(3) of this article shall commence.
(2005 Code, § 11-1262)
   (J)   Upon the receipt by the governing body of the certificate of the
official that all improvements have been installed in accordance with the
engineering drawings, as approved, and in conformity with the requirements of
this regulation and all other applicable statutes, ordinances and regulations,
the governing body shall, thereupon, by resolution or utility by letter
formally accept such improvements. The improvements shall become the property
of the governing body or utility company involved. The improvements shall
become the property of the governing body when taken into the city limits of
the city.
(2005 Code, § 11-1263)
§ 11-1219 APPEALS GENERAL; APPEALS ON IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivider of a proposed subdivision may appeal decisions
made in the enforcement of these regulations by the Administrator to the
Planning Commission; by the Planning Commission to the governing body for
streets as established in §
11-1218 of this article, unless otherwise provided for in these regulations.
Any such appeal shall provide a hearing de novo.
      (2)   In the event the governing body sustains the Planning Commission,
the action of the Planning Commission shall be final, except as otherwise
provided by law. If the governing body overrules the Planning Commission, the
governing body shall make its decision, in writing, stating the reason therefor
and, except as provided in subsection (B) below, return such decision and plat
to the Planning Commission for reapproval as required by law.
(2005 Code, § 11-1264)
   (B)   Any appeal as to approval as to standards, or plans and engineering
drawings in connection with required improvements shall be directed to the
governing body and that action shall be final.
(2005 Code, § 11-1265)
§ 11-1220 WAIVERS.
   Any waiver of the required improvements may be made only by the governing
body on a showing that such improvement is technically not feasible.
(2005 Code, § 11-1266)
§ 11-1221 VARIANCES.
   In cases in which there is unwarranted hardship in carrying out the literal
provisions of these regulations, as to design criteria, (e.g., lot width, lot
depth, block length and the like), the Planning Commission may grant a variance
from such provision.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be made to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall give the applicant and any other
interested person an opportunity to be heard with respect to the proposed
application for a variance.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall not grant a variance unless it shall
find that the strict application of these regulations will create an
unwarranted hardship, and unless the proposed variance is in harmony with the
intended purpose of these regulations and that the public safety and welfare
will be protected.
   (C)   Variances permitted under the provisions of §§
11-1219 through
11-1223 of this article shall not include variances from the requirements of
making improvements required in §
11-1218 of this article, unless approved as provided for in §
11-1221 of this article, the standards of specifications thereof, nor from the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of the city, except as to variances for
minimum lot width and/or area requirements. Consideration of an application for
a variance pursuant to §§
11-1219 through
11-1223 of this article does not relieve the applicant from the necessity of
proceeding under the applicable provisions of any other regulations (including
zoning regulations) of the city or county relating to variances.
   (D)   When used in this section, the term UNWARRANTED HARDSHIP shall mean
the complete deprivation of use as distinguished from a mere inconvenience.
(2005 Code, § 11-1267)
§ 11-1222 AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   These regulations may be amended at any time after the Planning Commission
shall have held a public hearing on the proposed amendment. A notice of such
public hearing shall be published in the official city newspaper as provided by
taw. At, or after, such public hearing is held, the Planning Commission may
adopt such amendments, but such amendments shall not become effective until
approved by the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 11-1268)
§ 11-1223 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A strip of land along the side of or in the rear of lots intended to
provide a secondary means of access to and from streets and such lots.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any street serving major traffic movements which is
designed primarily as a traffic carrier between cities or between various
sections of the city, which forms part of a network of through streets, and
which provides service and access to abutting properties only as a secondary
function.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
railway rights-of-way or waterways.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE (FRONT). A line nearest the front of and across a lot
or parcel of land establishing the minimum open space to be provided between
the front line of a building or structure and the line of the fronting street
right-of-way.
   CITY. The City of Holdrege, Nebraska.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Any street designed primarily to gather traffic from local
or residential streets and carry it to the arterial system.
   CROSSWALK. A strip of land dedicated for public use which is reserved across
a block for the purpose of providing pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having only one outlet and being permanently terminated
by a vehicle turn- around at the other end.
   DEAD END STREET. A street having only one outlet.
   DESIGN STANDARDS or DESIGN REQUIREMENTS. All requirements and regulations
relating to design and layout of subdivisions contained in §
11-1216 of these regulations.
   EXPRESSWAY. Any divided street or highway with no access from abutting
property and which has either separated or at-grade access from other public
streets and highways.
   FREEWAY. Any divided street or highway with complete access control and
grade separated interchanges with all other public streets and highways.
   FRONTAGE. The property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street; or
with a dead end street, all property abutting one side of such street measured
from the nearest intersecting street and the end of the dead end street.
   FRONTAGE LOT. The portion of the frontage which lies between the side lot
lines of a single lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private marginal access roadway generally
paralleling and contiguous to a street or highway and designed to promote
safety by eliminating unlimited ingress and egress of such street or highway by
providing points of ingress and egress at more or less uniformly spaced
intervals.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Any official map or street plan, the future land
use map or plan, or any other plan or map of the city or City Planning
Commission for the guidance of municipal growth and improvement of the city.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected governing body of the city.
   HALF STREET. A street bordering one or more property lines of a subdivision
tract to which the subdivider has allocated only a portion of the ultimate and
intended street width.
   IMPROVEMENTS. All facilities constructed or erected by a subdivider within a
subdivision to permit and facilitate the use of lots or blocks for a principal
residential, business or manufacturing purpose, IMPROVEMENTS shall include
facilities listed herein.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. An expressway or freeway, as defined in these
regulations.
   LOCAL STREET. Any street designed primarily to provide access to abutting
property.
   LOT. A portion or basic parcel of a subdivision or other tract of land
intended to be the parcel by which such land would be individually developed
and transferred.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, two opposite lot lines of which abut upon
streets which are more or less parallel.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoint of the front lot line and the
midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE. The boundary line of a lot.
   LOT SPLIT. The dividing or redividing or a lot or lots in a recorded plat of
a subdivision which meets the criteria established within these regulations.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance on a horizontal plane between the side lot lines of
a lot, measured at right angles to the line establishing the lot depth at the
established building setback line.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local street which is parallel with and adjacent
to a limited access highway or arterial street and which provides access to
abutting properties and protection from fast through traffic on the limited
access highway or arterial street.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or
any other legal entity having legal title to land sought to be subdivided under
these regulations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Holdrege Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A subdivision as it is represented as a formal document by drawings
and writing.
   REPLAT. The subdivision of a tract of land which has previously been
lawfully subdivided and a plat of such prior subdivision duly recorded.
   ROAD or ROADWAY. The paved or improved area existing on the street right-of-
way, exclusive of sidewalks, driveways or related uses.
   SCREENING. Decorative fencing or evergreen vegetation maintained for the
purpose of concealing from view the area behind such fencing or evergreen
vegetation. When fencing is used for SCREENING, it shall be not less than six,
nor more than eight, feet in height.
   STREET. The street right-of-way or easement, whether public or private; not
the area of the paving or other improvements on the street right-of- way unless
such paving or improvements coincide with the boundaries of such right-of-way.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the property lines abutting both
sides of a street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner, or any other person, firm or corporation authorized
by the owner, undertaking proceedings under the provisions of these regulations
for the purpose of subdividing land.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division or redivision of land by means of mapping,
platting, conveying, changing or rearranging of boundaries, or otherwise, and
shall also relate to the process of subdividing or other land subdivided where
appropriate to the context.
   TURN-AROUND. An area at the closed end of a dead end street or cul-de-sac
within which vehicles may reverse their direction without any backing up.
(2005 Code, § 11-1270)
§ 11-1224 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   These regulations may be amended at any time after the Planning Commission
shall have held a public hearing on the proposed amendment. A notice of such
public hearing shall be published in the official city newspaper as provided by
law. At, or after such public hearing is held, the Planning Commission may
adopt such amendments, but such amendments shall not become effective until
approved by the City Council.
(2005 Code, § 11-1271)
CHAPTER 12: CIVIL SERVICE
   Article
      
1.   CIVIL SERVICE IN GENERAL
      
2.   CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
      
3.   CIVIL SERVICE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: CIVIL SERVICE IN GENERAL
Section
   
12-101   Positions covered
   
12-102   Position creation and elimination
   
12-103   Establishment of salaries and compensation
   
12-104   Payment of compensation for services
   
12-105   City’s duty to Commission
   
12-106   Political fund contribution and political service
   
12-107   Obstructing examinations
§ 12-101 POSITIONS COVERED.
   This chapter shall apply only to all present full-time police officers of
the city, including any paid full-time Police Chief or Fire Chief of such
department and future appointees to such full-time positions. FULL-TIME POLICE
OFFICERS shall mean police officers in positions which require certification by
the state’s Law Enforcement Training Center, who have the power of arrest, who
are paid regularly by the city and for whom law enforcement is a full-time
career, but shall not include clerical, custodial or maintenance personnel.
FULL-TIME FIREFIGHTERS shall mean duly appointed firefighters; who are paid
regularly by the city and for whom firefighting is a full-time career, but
shall not include clerical, custodial or maintenance personnel who are not
engaged in fire suppression.
(2005 Code, § 12-101)
§ 12-102 POSITION CREATION AND ELIMINATION.
   All positions subject to the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-
1848, shall be created or eliminated by the Mayor and Council.
(2005 Code, § 12-102)
§ 12-103 ESTABLISHMENT OF SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   This chapter shall not be construed to infringe upon the power and authority
of the Mayor and Council to establish salaries and compensation of all
employees within the compensation schedule or ranges established by the Mayor
and Council for the positions.
(2005 Code, § 12-103)
§ 12-104 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES.
   No treasurer, auditor, comptroller or other officer or employee of the city
subject to the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, shall
approve the payment of or be in any manner concerned in paying, auditing or
approving any salary, wage or other compensation for services to any person
subject to the jurisdiction and scope of the Civil Service Act unless the
person to receive such salary, wage or other compensation has been appointed or
employed in compliance with such Act.
(2005 Code, § 12-104)
§ 12-105 CITY’S DUTY TO COMMISSION.
   The Mayor and Council shall provide the Commission with suitable and
convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated,
lighted and supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry
on the business of the Commission and with such clerical assistance as may be
necessary. It shall be the duty of the city to appropriate such fiscal year,
from the general funds of the city, a sum of money sufficient to pay the
necessary expenses involved in carrying out the purposes of such Act,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees for any special
counsel appointed by the Commission when the City Administrator to represent
the Commission. The City Administrator may establish the hourly or monthly rate
of pay of such special counsel. The city shall afford the Commission, its
members and employees, all reasonable facilities and assistance to inspect all
books, papers, documents and accounts applying or in any way appertaining to
any and all positions and employments subject to civil service and shall
produce such books, papers, documents and accounts. All city officers and
employees shall attend and testify whenever required to do so by the
Commission, the accused or the City Administrator.
(2005 Code, § 12-105)
§ 12-106 POLITICAL FUND CONTRIBUTION AND POLITICAL SERVICE.
   No person holding any position subject to civil service shall be under any
obligation to contribute to any political fund or to render any political
service to any person or party whatsoever. No person shall be removed, reduced
in position or salary or otherwise prejudiced for refusing so to do. No public
officer, whether elected or appointed, shall discharge, promote, demote or in
any manner change the official rank, employment or compensation of any person
under civil service, or promise or threaten to do so for giving, withholding or
neglecting to make any contribution of money, services or any valuable thing
for any political purposes.
(2005 Code, § 12-106)
§ 12-107 OBSTRUCTING EXAMINATIONS.
   No Commissioner or any other person shall by himself or herself or in
cooperation with one or more persons:
   (A)   Defeat, deceive or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the Civil
Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848;
   (B)   Falsely mark, grade, estimate or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with such act or aid
in so doing;
   (C)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
person examined;
   (D)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined or
certified to be examined or certified; or
   (E)   Persuade any other person to permit or aid in any manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application or request to be so examined.
(2005 Code, § 12-107)
ARTICLE 2: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Section
   
12-201   Created
   
12-202   Appointment of members
   
12-203   Terms of office
   
12-204   Removal from office
   
12-205   Compensation of members
   
12-206   Meetings
   
12-207   Chairperson
   
12-208   Secretary and chief examiner
   
12-209   Quorum
   
12-210   Powers and duties
   
12-211   Obstructing examinations
   
12-212   City’s duty to Commission
§ 12-201 CREATED.
   There is hereby created in the city a Civil Service Commission, which shall
have five members who shall each be a citizen of the United States, a resident
of the city for at least three years immediately preceding his or her
appointment and an elector of the county in which he or she resides.
(2005 Code, § 12-201) (Ord. 2381, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 12-202 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Council. At the time of any appointment, not more than
two members of the Civil Service Commission, including the one or ones to be
appointed, shall be registered electors of the same political party.
(2005 Code, § 12-202)
§ 12-203 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The first person appointed to the Civil Service Commission shall serve
a term of two years; the second and third members selected will serve a term of
four years; and the fourth and fifth members a six-year term, respectively.
   (B)   Thereafter, all appointments shall be for six years.
(2005 Code, § 12-203) (Ord. 2381, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 12-204 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any member of the Civil Service Commission may be removed from office for
incompetency, dereliction of duty, malfeasance in office or other good cause by
the Mayor; except that, no member of the Civil Service Commission shall be
removed until written charges have been preferred, due notice given such member
and a full hearing had before the Mayor.
(2005 Code, § 12-204)
§ 12-205 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Civil Service Commission shall serve without compensation.
(2005 Code, § 12-205)
§ 12-206 MEETINGS.
   The Civil Service Commission shall hold meetings as may be required for the
proper discharge of its duties.
(2005 Code, § 12-206)
§ 12-207 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Civil Service Commission shall annually elect one of its members as
Chairperson.
(2005 Code, § 12-207)
§ 12-208 SECRETARY AND CHIEF EXAMINER.
   The Civil Service Commission shall appoint a Secretary and a chief examiner
who shall keep the records of the Commission, preserve all reports made to it,
superintend and keep a record of all examinations held under its direction and
perform such other duties as the Commission may prescribe. The Commission may
merge the positions of Secretary and chief examiner and appoint one person to
perform the duties of both positions. The Commission shall appoint the city’s
personnel officer as Secretary and chief examiner, if requested to do so by the
City Administrator. The Secretary and chief examiner shall be subject to
suspension or discharge upon the vote of a majority of the appointed members of
the Commission.
(2005 Code, § 12-208)
§ 12-209 QUORUM.
   Three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(2005 Code, § 12-209) (Ord. 2381, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 12-210 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt and promulgate procedural rules and
regulations which shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may
be held and any other matters assigned to it by the City Administrator. At
least one copy of the rules and regulations, and any amendments, shall be made
available for examination and reproduction by members of the public. One copy
of the rules and regulations and any amendments shall be given to each full-
time firefighter and full-time police officer.
   (B)   The Commission shall provide that all tests shall be practical and
consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the capacity of person who
are to be examined to perform the duties of the position to which an
appointment is to be made and may include, but not be limited to, tests of
physical fitness and of manual skill and psychological testing.
   (C)   The Commission shall provide, by the rules and regulations, for a
credit of 10% in favor of all applicants for an appointment to an entry level
position, as defined by the City Administrator, under civil service who in time
of war or in any expedition of the Armed Forces of the United States, have
served in and been honorably discharged from the Armed Forces of the United
States and who have equaled or exceeded the minimum qualifying standards
established by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The Commission may conduct an investigation concerning and report upon
all matters regarding the enforcement and effect of the Civil Service Act,
being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, and the rules and regulations prescribed.
   (E)   The Commission may inspect all institutions, departments, positions
and employments affected by such Act to determine whether such act and all such
rules and regulations are being obeyed. Such investigations may be conducted by
the Commission or by any Commissioner designated by the Commission for that
purpose. The Commission shall also make a like investigation on the written
petition of a citizen, duly verified, stating that irregularities or abuses
exist or setting forth, in concise language, the necessity for such an
investigation. The Commission may be represented in such investigations by the
City Attorney, if authorized by the City Administrator. If the City Attorney
does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented by special
counsel appointed by the Commission in any such investigation. In the course of
such an investigation, the Commission, designated Commissioner or chief
examiner shall have the power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas to require
the attendance of witnesses and the production by them of books, papers,
documents, and accounts appertaining to the investigation and to cause the
deposition of witnesses, residing within or without the state, to be taken in
the manner prescribed by law for like depositions in civil actions in the
courts of the state. The oaths administered and subpoenas issued shall have the
same force and effect as the oaths administered by a District Judge in a
judicial capacity and subpoenas issued by the District Courts of the state. The
failure of any person so subpoenaed to comply shall be deemed a violation of
the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, and shall be punished
as such. No investigation shall be made pursuant to this section if there is a
written accusation concerning the same subject matter against a person in the
Civil Service. Such accusation shall be handled pursuant to §
12-305 of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The Commission shall provide that all hearings and
investigations before the Commission, designated Commissioner or chief examiner
shall be governed by the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848,
and the rules of practice and procedure to be adopted by the Commission. In the
conduct thereof, they shall not be bound by the technical rules of evidence.
      (2)   No informality in any proceedings or hearing or in the manner of
taking testimony shall invalidate any order, decision, rule or regulation made,
approved or confirmed by the Commission; except that, no order, decision, rule
or regulation made by any designated Commissioner conducting any hearing or
investigation alone shall be of any force or effect unless it is concurred in
by a majority of the appointed members of the Commission, including the vote of
any Commissioner making the investigation.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish and maintain a roster of officers and
employees.
   (H)   The Commission shall provide for, establish and hold competitive tests
to determine the relative qualifications of persons who seek employment in any
position and, as a result thereof, establish eligible lists for the various
positions.
   (I)   The Commission shall make recommendations concerning a reduction in
force policy to the Mayor and Council.
   (J)   The Commission shall keep such records as may be necessary for the
proper administration of the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-
1848.
   (K)   The Commission, upon request of the City Administrator, shall
establish and maintain a list of names and addresses, for a period of time
established by the City Administrator, of those eligible for appointment to or
promotion within the department.
   (L)   The Commission, upon request of the City Administrator, shall certify
the name of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list,
following the most recent examination and whose qualifications have been
validated by the Commission for a vacant position.
   (M)   The Commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may be
necessary for the proper enforcement of the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS
19-1825 to 19-1848, and the rules of the Commission. The Commission may be
represented in such suits and all investigations pursuant to the Act by the
City Attorney if authorized by the City Administrator. If the City Attorney
does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented by special
counsel appointed by it in any particular case.
(2005 Code, § 12-210)
§ 12-211 OBSTRUCTING EXAMINATIONS.
   No Commissioner or any other person shall by himself or herself or in
cooperation with one or more persons:
   (A)   Defeat, deceive, or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the Civil
Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848;
   (B)   Falsely mark, grade, estimate or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with such act or aid
in so doing;
   (C)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
person examined;
   (D)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined or
certified to be examined or certified; or
   (E)   Persuade any other person to permit or aid in any manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application or request to be so examined.
(Ord. 2381, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 12-212 CITY’S DUTY TO COMMISSION.
   The Mayor and Council shall provide the Commission with suitable and
convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated,
lighted and supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry
on the business of the Commission and with such clerical assistance as may be
necessary. It shall be the duty of the city to appropriate such fiscal year,
from the general funds of the city, a sum of money sufficient to pay the
necessary expenses involved in carrying out the purposes of such Act,
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees for any special
counsel appointed by the Commission when the City Administrator to represent
the Commission. The City Administrator may establish the hourly or monthly rate
of pay of such special counsel. The city shall afford the Commission, its
members and employees, all reasonable facilities and assistance to inspect all
books, papers, documents and accounts applying or in any way appertaining to
any and all positions and employments subject to civil service and shall
produce such books, papers, documents and accounts. All city officers and
employees shall attend and testify whenever required to do so by the
Commission, the accused or the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2381, passed 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE 3: CIVIL SERVICE PROVISIONS
Section
   
12-301   Appointments and promotions
   
12-302   Requirements for civil service position applicants
   
12-303   Filling of vacant positions
   
12-304   Probationary period
   
12-305   Disciplinary actions
   
12-306   Reduction in force policy
   
12-307   Leave of absence
§ 12-301 APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   All appointments to and promotions in the Police or Fire Department
shall be made solely on merit, efficiency and fitness, which shall be
ascertained by open competitive examination and impartial investigation by the
Commission.
   (B)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPOINTMENTS. All means of selecting, appointing or employing any person
to hold any position or employment subject to civil service.
      POSITION. An individual job which is designated by an official title
indicative of the nature of the work.
      PROMOTION or DEMOTION. Changing from one position to another, accompanied
by a corresponding change in current rate of pay.
(2005 Code, § 12-301)
§ 12-302 REQUIREMENTS FOR CIVIL SERVICE POSITION APPLICANTS.
   An applicant for a position of any kind under civil service shall be able to
read and write the English language, meet the minimum job qualifications of the
position as established by the City Administrator, and be of good moral
character. An applicant shall be required to disclose his or her past
employment history and his or her criminal record, if any. Prior to certifying
to the City Administrator the names of the persons eligible for the position or
positions, the Commission shall validate the qualifications of such persons.
(2005 Code, § 12-302)
§ 12-303 FILLING OF VACANT POSITIONS.
   (A)   Considerations. If the City Administrator fills a vacancy in a
position subject to the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, he
or she shall consider factors, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the applicant which are necessary for the position;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills and abilities of the applicant which are
necessary for the position;
      (3)   The performance appraisals of any applicant who is already in the
Department, including any recent or pending disciplinary actions involving the
employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the Department
together with contracts, ordinances and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state or local certifications or licenses
necessary for the position; and
      (6)   The qualifications of the applicants who are already employed in
the department and have successfully completed all parts of the examination for
the position. No person shall be reinstated in or transferred, suspended or
discharged from any such position or employment contrary to the Civil Service
Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848.
   (B)   Procedure for filling vacant positions. Whenever a position subject to
the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, becomes vacant, the
City Administrator shall make requisition upon the Commission for the name and
addresses of the persons eligible for appointment and may decline to fill such
vacancy for an indefinite period. If the Commission certifies fewer than three
names for each vacancy to the City Administrator, the City Administrator may
appoint one of such persons to fill the vacancy, may decline to fill the
vacancy or may order that another examination be held by the Civil Service
Commission.
   (C)   Temporary appointments. If a vacancy occurs and there is no eligible
list for the position or if the Commission has not certified persons from the
eligible list, a temporary appointment may be made by the City Administrator.
Such temporary appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four
months. No person shall receive more than one temporary appointment or serve
more than four months. No person shall receive more than four months as a
temporary appointee in any one fiscal year.
(2005 Code, § 12-303)
§ 12-304 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   To enable the City Administrator to exercise a choice in the filling
of positions, no appointment, after the expiration of a period of three to six
months probationary service for firefighters and not less than six months nor
more than one year after certification by the state’s Law Enforcement Training
Center for Police Officers, as may be provided in the rules of the Civil
Service Commission, during which time the City Administrator may terminate the
employment of the person appointed by him or her if, during the performance
test thus afforded and upon an observation or consideration of the performance
of duty, the City Administrator deems such person unfit or unsatisfactory for
service in the department.
   (B)   The City Administrator may appoint one of the other persons certified
by the Commission and such person shall likewise enter upon such duties until
some person is found who is fit for appointment, employment or promotion for
the probationary period provided and then the appointment, employment or
promotion shall be complete.
(2005 Code, § 12-304)
§ 12-305 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Tenure of employment. The tenure of a person holding a position of
employment under the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1848, shall
be only during good behavior.
   (B)   Causes for disciplinary action. Any such person may be removed or
discharged, suspended with or without pay, demoted, reduced in rank or deprived
of vacation, benefits, compensation or other privileges, except pension
benefits, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Incompetency, inefficiency or inattention to or dereliction of
duty;
      (2)   Dishonesty, prejudicial conduct, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public or a fellow employee, any act of omission
or commission tending to injure the public service, any willful failure on the
part of the employee to properly conduct himself or herself, or any willful
violation of the Civil Service Act or the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to such act;
      (3)   Mental or physical unfitness for the position which the employee
holds;
      (4)   Drunkenness or the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics or any
other habit-forming drug, liquid or preparation to such an extent that the use
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee or
precludes the employee from properly performing the functions and duties of his
or her position;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor tending to injure the
employee’s ability to effectively perform the duties of his or her position; or
      (6)   Any other act or failure to act which, in the judgment of the Civil
Service Commissioners is sufficient to justify the offender to be an unsuitable
and unfit person to be employed in the public service.
   (C)   Disciplinary action procedure.
      (1)   No employee in the civil service who shall have been permanently
appointed or inducted into civil service shall be removed, suspended, demoted
or discharged, except for cause and then only upon the written accusation of
the Police or Fire Chief, City Administrator or any citizen or taxpayer.
      (2)   (a)   The written accusation shall set forth the alleged
misconduct, charges or grounds for investigation against the employee. The
written accusation shall be filed by the complainant with the Secretary of the
Commission who shall cause a copy of such written accusation to be delivered
within five calendar days after the filing:
            1.   To the Police or Fire Chief;
            2.   To the City Administrator; and
            3.   To the employee personally or by certified mail, addressed to
the employee at the residence address of the employee shown in his or her
personnel records.
         (b)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing
such delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary’s office.
      (3)   The Police or Fire Chief shall have the authority to immediately
suspend, with pay, an employee against whom such written accusation has been
filed, pending the confirmation of the suspension, or a decision of the City
Administer to reinstate the employee, remove, demote, discharge or suspend the
employee with or without pay.
      (4)   (a)   Prior to the decision of the City Administrator to reinstate
the employee or remove, demote, discharge or suspend the employee, with or
without pay, the Police or Fire Chief shall, within a reasonable period of
time, investigate the alleged misconduct, charges or grounds against the
employee and explain the basis of the employer’s evidence to the employee and
provide the employee an opportunity to present his or her version of the
circumstances which resulted in the filing of the written accusation. If the
Chief’s investigation reveals other misconduct, charges or grounds, the Chief
shall amend the written accusation to include the other misconduct, charges or
grounds by filing an amendment to the written accusation with the Secretary of
the Commission who shall cause a copy of such amended accusation to be
delivered within five calendar days after the filing:
            1.   To the Police or Fire Chief;
            2.   To the City Administrator; and
            3.   To the employee personally or by certified mail, addressed to
the employee at the residence address of the employee shown in the personnel
records.
         (b)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing
such delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary’s office.
         (c)   In the event that a Police or Fire Chief is being disciplined,
the City Administrator shall follow the same procedures as are followed by the
Police or Fire Chief in disciplining employees under the Act.
         (d)   Upon completion of this procedure within a reasonable period of
time, the Police or Fire Chief shall recommend in writing to the City
Administrator that the alleged misconduct, charges or grounds set forth in the
written accusation be deemed:
            1.   To be without merit;
            2.   To not warrant disciplinary action;
            3.   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
            4.   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge or suspension, with or
without pay.
      (5)   (a)   Within five calendar days after receiving the written
recommendation of the Police or Fire Chief, the City Administrator shall decide
to accept the recommendation of the Police or Fire Chief, or shall decide that
the alleged misconduct, charges or grounds for investigation against the
employee set forth in the written accusation be deemed:
            1.   To be without merit;
            2.   To not warrant disciplinary action;
            3.   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
            4.   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge or suspension, with or
without pay.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall file a copy of his or her decision
within five calendar days after receiving the written recommendation of the
Police or Fire Chief, with the Secretary of the Commission who shall cause a
copy of such decision to be filed within five calendar days after the filing:
            1.   To the Police or Fire Chief; and
            2.   To the employee, personally or by certified mail, addressed to
the employee at the residence address of the employee shown in the personnel
records.
         (c)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing
such delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary’s office.
      (6)   Any employee so removed, suspended, demoted or discharged may,
within ten calendar days after receiving written notice of the City
Administrator’s decision, file a written demand for an investigation and public
hearing by the Civil Service Commission. The employee shall file the request
for the hearing with the Secretary of the Commission and simultaneously send a
copy of the request to the City Administrator. The failure to file such a
request with the Secretary of the Commission within ten calendar days of
receipt of notice of the action by the City Administrator shall constitute a
waiver of the employee’s right to review by the Civil Service Commission and
the City Administrator’s decision shall become final.
      (7)   Within five calendar days of receipt of the employee’s notice of
appeal, the City Administrator shall cause to be mailed or delivered the
following notice to the employee and Secretary of the Civil Service Commission:
         (a)   A statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
City Administrator and a general statement of the nature of their testimony;
and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
      (8)   Within five calendar days after the filing of the written demand
for an investigation and public hearing by the Commission, the employee shall
mail or deliver the following upon the City Administrator and the Commission:
         (a)   A response to the statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
employee and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
      (9)   Upon receipt of a written demand, the Commission shall conduct an
investigation. The Commission may be represented in such investigation and
public hearing by the City Attorney if authorized by the City Administrator. If
the City Attorney does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be
represented by special counsel appointed by the Commission for any such
investigation and hearing. The investigation shall consist solely of a review
of the written submissions of the City Administrator and employee to determine
whether any individuals or documents should be subpoenaed by the Commission for
the subsequent public hearing before the Commission ultimately to determine
whether the City Administrator acted in good faith for cause. Good faith for
cause shall mean that the action was not arbitrary or capricious and was not
made for political or religious reasons.
      (10)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing no less than ten,
nor more than 20, calendar days from the date of filing of the employee’s
written demand for an investigation. The Commission shall notify the City
Administrator and employee in writing at least three calendar days prior to the
date of the hearing, of the date, time and place of hearing.
      (11)   The City Administrator shall be permitted to appear in person and
by counsel and to present his or her case. The City Administrator may present
evidence by testimony and documents and shall be permitted to cross-examine the
employee’s witnesses. At the hearing, the employee shall be permitted to appear
in person and by counsel and to present his or her defense. The employee may
present evidence by testimony and documents and shall be permitted to cross-
examine the witnesses called by the City Administrator.
      (12)   The Commission may affirm the action taken by the City
Administrator if such action is supported by a preponderance of the evidence.
If the Commission finds that the removal, suspension, demotion or discharge was
made for political or religious reasons or was not made in good faith for
cause, it shall order the immediate reinstatement or re-employment of such
employee in the position or employment from which such employee was removed,
suspended, demoted or discharged, which reinstatement shall, if the Commission
in its discretion so provides, be retroactive and entitle such person to
compensation and restoration of benefits and privileges from the time of such
removal, suspension, demotion or discharge.
      (13)   After the hearing, in lieu of affirming the removal, suspension,
demotion or discharge, the Commission may modify the order of removal,
suspension, with or without pay, for a given period and the subsequent
restoration to duty or demotion in position or pay. No later than ten calendar
days after the hearing, the Commission shall certify its findings in writing to
the employee and to the City Administrator who shall enforce them.
(2005 Code, § 12-305)
§ 12-306 REDUCTION IN FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Establishment. The Mayor and Council in establishing a reduction in
force shall consider recommendations from the Civil Service Commission, but
shall not be bound by them. Prior to the adoption of a reduction-in-force
policy the Mayor and Council shall, after giving reasonable notice of each
police officer and firefighter by first class mail, conduct a public hearing.
   (B)   Factors. The Mayor and Council shall adopt a reduction in force policy
which shall consider factors including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills and abilities of the employee;
      (3)   The performance appraisal of the employee, including any recent or
pending disciplinary actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the department
together with contracts, ordinances and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state or local certifications or licenses; and
      (6)   Seniority.
(2005 Code, § 12-306)
§ 12-307 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   A leave of absence with or without pay may be granted by the City
Administrator to any person under civil service. The City Administrator shall
give notice of such leave to the Commission. All appointments for temporary
employment resulting from such leaves of absence shall be made from the
eligible lists, if any, of the civil service.
(2005 Code, § 12-307)
CHAPTER 13: CABLEVISION
   Article
      
1.   IN GENERAL
      
2.   CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
      
3.   SERVICE STANDARDS
      
4.   REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT, PURCHASE AND REMOVAL OF SYSTEM
      
5.   SALE, TRANSFER AND RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE
      
6.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
      
7.   GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS
      
8.   RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
ARTICLE 1: IN GENERAL
Section
   
13-101   Short title
   
13-102   Definitions
   
13-103   Compliance with applicable laws and the like
   
13-104   Reserved
   
13-105   Notice of rate increase
   
13-106   Required
   
13-107   Issuance restricted
   
13-108   Franchise non-exclusive
   
13-109   Application
   
13-110   Authority for use of streets
   
13-111   Police powers
§ 13-101 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “Holdrege CATV Ordinance”.
(2005 Code, § 13-101) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Holdrege and all of the territory within its present and
future boundaries as defined by the city limits.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. An agreement entitled FRANCHISE AGREEMENT entered into
between city and licensee which is enforceable by city and licensee and which
sets forth the rights and obligations between city and licensee arising out of
the franchise.
   FRANCHISEE, LICENSEE or GRANTEE. The person granted a franchise to operate a
system under this chapter.
   PAY OR PAID TELEVISION. The delivery over system of per channel or per
program audiovisual signals to a subscriber for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic service.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual or
organization authorized to do business in the state or any natural person.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property owned by city or any other governmental
unit, other than a street.
   STREET. The surface of and the space above and below any public STREET,
road, cartway, highway, freeway, lane, path, public way, alley, court,
sidewalk, boulevard, parkway, drive or any easement dedicated for compatible
uses or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the city which shall, within its
proper use and meaning in the sole opinion of the city, entitle the licensee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing or transmitting over poles,
wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and
pertinent to system.
   SUBSCRIBER or RATE PAYER. Any person or entity who lawfully subscribes to a
service provided by a licensee by means of or in connection with a system and
pays a fee, unless such fee is lawfully waived.
   SYSTEM. A broadband telecommunications SYSTEM of antennas, cables, wires,
lines, towers, waveguides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities, designed and constructed for the purpose of distributing video
programming to home subscribers and for producing receiving, transmitting,
amplifying and distributing audio, video, digital or other forms of electronic
or electrical signals, located in city.
(2005 Code, § 13-102) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-103 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every person obtaining a franchise under the provisions of this
chapter shall, at all times, during the term of such franchise, be subject to
all lawful exercise of the police power of the city, and to such additional
generally applicable regulations as the City Council shall hereafter, by
resolution or ordinance provide (and shall fully comply with both the National
Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Association, and the National
Electrical Safety Code, and all applicable rules and regulations now in effect
or hereafter adopted by the Federal Communications Commission, the state and
the United States government).
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to require or compel a violation
of any constitutional enactment of the Federal Congress or lawful rule or
regulations of any agency of the United States government pertaining to wired
or cabled television and radio systems and services.
(2005 Code, § 13-103) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-104 RESERVED.
§ 13-105 NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE.
   The licensee shall not increase rates until such time as it has provided a
notice as required by applicable law to the City Clerk and each subscriber of
the franchisee either by billing statement or other written notice that
complies with applicable FCC rules and regulations.
(2005 Code, § 13-105) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-106 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, operate or
maintain in or along the streets, alleys and public ways, or elsewhere within
the corporate limits of the city, a wired or cable television system without
first obtaining from such city a franchise authorizing the same.
(2005 Code, § 13-106) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-107 ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   The authority to issue franchises authorizing wire or cabled television
systems within the corporate limits of the city is hereby reserved unto the
City Council.
(2005 Code, § 13-107) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-108 FRANCHISE NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   All franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall be non-exclusive and
for a term not to exceed 25 years. The city specifically reserves the right to
grant, at any time, such additional franchises for a system as it deems
appropriate. The city also reserves the right to grant one or more franchises
for the provision of specifically defined services not being provided by any
licensee including, but not limited to, institutional communications services
and interactive residential services.
(2005 Code, § 13-108) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-109 APPLICATION.
   Every franchise required by the provisions of this chapter shall incorporate
the provisions and conditions of this chapter except to the extent in conflict
with the franchise.
(2005 Code, § 13-109) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-110 AUTHORITY FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of operating and maintaining the system in the city,
the licensee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct and
retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the streets within the city
such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, pedestals, attachments and other property and equipment as are
necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the system; provided that, all
applicable permits applied for and granted, all fees paid and all other city
codes and ordinances are otherwise complied with. The licensee will erect no
poles unless the licensee is unable to obtain access to existing poles,
conduits, or other facilities in the city on reasonable terms and conditions.
   (B)   The right to use and occupy such streets, alleys, public ways and
places for the purpose herein set forth shall not be exclusive, and the city
reserves the right to grant a similar use of such streets, alleys, public ways
and places, to any person at any time during the period of such franchise. The
city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a system as it deems appropriate.
   (C)   Prior to construction or major alteration, the licensee shall in each
case file plans with all appropriate city departments and utility companies and
receive written approval of such plans, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld. The licensee shall provide a monthly progress report to
city through the completion of construction or major alteration. This provision
shall apply only to franchisees who do not currently have an active cable
system in the city at the time the franchise is granted.
   (D)   The licensee shall construct and maintain the system so as not to
interfere with other uses of streets. The licensee shall make use of existing
utility poles and other facilities available to the licensee, as outlined in
separate pole agreement. The licensee shall individually notify all residents
affected by proposed construction prior to the commencement of that work.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the above grant to use streets, no street shall be
used by the licensee if the city determines that such use is inconsistent with
the terms, conditions or provisions by which such street was created or
dedicated, or presently used.
(2005 Code, § 13-110) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-111 POLICE POWERS.
   The licensee's rights hereunder are subject to the police power of the city
to adopt and enforce generally applicable ordinances necessary to the health,
safety and welfare of the public. The licensee shall comply with all applicable
general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
(2005 Code, § 13-111) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 2: CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
Section
   
13-201   Permits
   
13-202   Construction codes
   
13-203   Reservation of street rights
   
13-204   Repair of streets and property
   
13-205   Undergrounding of cable
   
13-206   Trimming of trees
   
13-207   Street vacation or abandonment
   
13-208   Movement of facilities
   
13-209   Erection of poles prohibited
§ 13-201 PERMITS.
   The licensee shall obtain a permit from the proper city authority before
commencing construction or alteration of the system, including the opening or
disturbance of any street, sidewalk, driveway or public place. Any and all
streets which are disturbed or damaged during the construction, alteration,
operation, maintenance or reconstruction of the system shall be promptly
repaired by the licensee, at its expense, and to a similar condition prior to
the disturbance or damage.
(2005 Code, § 13-201) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-202 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   All wires, conduits, cable and other property and facilities of the
licensee shall be located, constructed, installed and maintained in compliance
with applicable codes. The licensee shall keep and maintain all of its property
so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary grade,
traffic or travel upon the streets and public places of the city or endanger
the lives or property of any person. In the event of such interference, the
city may require the removal of the licensee's lines, cables and appurtenances
from the street or property in question.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to inspect all construction or
installation work performed subject to the provisions of the franchise
agreement.
(2005 Code, § 13-202) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-203 RESERVATION OF STREET RIGHTS.
   (A)   Nothing in the franchise shall be construed to prevent the city from
constructing sewers, grading, paving, repairing and/or altering any street, or
laying down, repairing or removing water mains or constructing or establishing
any other public work. All such work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in
such manner as not to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of
the poles, wires, conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of the licensee.
   (B)   If any such property of the licensee herein shall interfere with the
construction or repair of any street or improvement, ten days’ notice shall be
given to the licensee by the city and all poles, wires, conduits or other
appliances and facilities shall be removed or replaced by the licensee in such
manner as shall be directed by the city so that the same shall not interfere
with the said public work of the city, and such removal or replacement shall be
at the expense of the licensee herein.
(2005 Code, § 13-203) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-204 REPAIR OF STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   In constructing, operating, maintaining and testing the system, the licensee
shall refill and compact, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made
and shall leave all streets and property in as good a condition as that
prevailing prior to the said work, and without affecting, altering or
disturbing, in any way, electric, telephone or utility cables, wires or
attachments. The city shall have the right to inspect and approve the condition
of such streets and property after said work. Licensee shall promptly bury
cable lines where it installs underground facilities in the streets. Upon
written notice from the city identifying the locations of any such cable lines
left unburied by the licensee after completion of its work in the streets, the
licensee shall have ten business days to bury any such cable lines, which time
shall be extended as necessary based on the time required for the licensee to
obtain necessary permits, the time required to obtain underground locates, or
any other factors outside of the licensee's control which could impact the
licensee's ability to cure the issue. In the event the licensee believes it is
not responsible for such cable lines, it shall have ten business days to
respond in writing to the notice detailing the basis for its position. If the
licensee fails either to bury such cable lines within the time for cure set
forth herein, or fails to provide a written response as specified herein within
ten days, the city may issue a fine of up to $100 for each subsequent day the
licensee fails to bury such cable lines until such cable lines are buried, with
a total fine not to exceed $1,000 for any notice.
(2005 Code, § 13-204) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-205 UNDERGROUNDING OF CABLE.
   The placement of cables underground is encouraged. Previously installed
aerial cable shall be placed underground in concert with all other utilities,
when all other utilities may convert from aerial to underground construction.
The city shall give notice to the licensee of all pending changes from aerial
to underground utility installation. Developers shall be required by the city
to give reasonable notice to the licensee of pending underground trenching. The
licensee shall place cable underground in newly platted areas in concert with
the other utilities.
(2005 Code, § 13-205) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-206 TRIMMING OF TREES.
   The licensee may trim trees upon any overhanging streets, berms, alleys,
sidewalks and public places of the city so as to prevent the branches of such
trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the licensee. Except
for incidental trimming done by licensee personnel in the course of performing
other duties, the licensee shall give a minimum of 72 hours' advanced written
notice to affected residents, and all trimming shall be done with the approval
and under the supervision and direction of the city and at the expense of the
licensee.
(2005 Code, § 13-206) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-207 STREET VACATION OR ABANDONMENT.
   In the event any street or portion thereof used by the licensee shall be
vacated by the city or the use thereof discontinued by the licensee during the
term of the franchise, the licensee shall forthwith remove its facilities
therefrom unless specifically permitted to continue the same, and on the
removal thereof restore, repair or reconstruct the street area where such
removal has occurred, and place the street area where such removal has occurred
to a condition similar to that existing before such removal took place. In the
event of failure, neglect or refusal of the licensee, after 30 days’ notice by
the city to repair, improve or maintain such street portion, the city may do
such work or cause it to be done, and the cost thereof as found and declared by
the city shall be paid by the licensee as directed by the city and collection
may be made by court action or otherwise.
(2005 Code, § 13-207) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-208 MOVEMENT OF FACILITIES.
   In the event it is necessary temporarily to move or remove any of the
licensee’s wires, cables, poles, or other facilities placed pursuant to the
franchise, in order lawfully to move a large object, building or other
structure over the streets of the city, the licensee, upon reasonable notice,
shall move at the expense of the person requesting the temporary removal such
of his or her facilities as may be required to facilitate such movements.
Unless an emergency exists, REASONABLE NOTICE shall mean a minimum of 72 hours.
The licensee may reserve the right to require payment in advance for such
moving services. Additionally, any service disruption sections of the franchise
shall not apply in the event that the removal of the licensee’s wires, cables,
poles or other facilities results in temporary service disruptions; however,
the licensee shall give five days’ advance written notice to affected
subscribers if such removal will result in temporary service disruptions.
(2005 Code, § 13-208) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-209 ERECTION OF POLES PROHIBITED.
   The licensee shall not erect, for any reason, any pole on or along any
street in an existing aerial utility system unless the licensee is unable to
obtain access to existing poles on reasonable terms and conditions. Any such
additional poles shall require the advance written approval of the city.
(2005 Code, § 13-209) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 3: SERVICE STANDARDS
Section
   
13-301   Outline of standards
§ 13-301 OUTLINE OF STANDARDS.
   Every licensee under this article shall maintain and operate the system and
render efficient service in accordance with applicable law; provided, however,
the licensee shall operate the system so that there will be no interference
with television reception or radio reception now in use by the city or any
persons in the city.
(2005 Code, § 13-301) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 4: REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT, PURCHASE AND REMOVAL OF SYSTEM
Section
   
13-401   City’s right to revoke
   
13-402   Procedures
   
13-403   Removal of systems
   
13-404   Purchase
   
13-405   Abandonment
   
13-406   Foreclosure
§ 13-401 CITY’S RIGHT TO REVOKE.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to terminate and cancel the franchise and
all rights and privileges of the franchise in the event:
      (1)   The licensee substantially violates any material provision of the
franchise;
      (2)   The licensee attempts to evade any material provision of the
franchise;
      (3)   The licensee practices any fraud or deceit upon the city;
      (4)   The licensee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts;
      (5)   The licensee is adjudged bankrupt;
      (6)   The licensee materially misrepresents a fact in the application
for, negotiation of or administration of the franchise; or
      (7)   Upon the conviction of any director, officer, employee or agent of
the licensee of the offense of bribery, fraud or extortion connected with or
resulting from the awarding of the franchise.
   (B)   Nothing in the franchise shall preclude termination of it at any time
by mutual agreement of both the city and licensee.
(2005 Code, § 13-401) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-402 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city shall provide the licensee with a written notice of the cause
for termination and its intention to terminate the franchise and shall allow
the licensee a minimum of 60 days after service of the notice in which to
correct the violation.
   (B)   The licensee shall be provided with an opportunity to be heard at a
public hearing before the city prior to the termination of the franchise. The
city shall hear any persons interested therein, and shall determine, in its
discretion, whether or not any failure, refusal or neglect by the licensee has
occurred. If the city determines that such failure, refusal or neglect has
occurred, the city shall decide whether or not it was with just cause.
   (C)   If such failure, refusal or neglect by the licensee to comply within
such time was with just cause, the city shall direct the licensee to comply
within such time and manner and upon such terms and conditions as are
reasonable.
   (D)   If the city shall determine such failure, refusal or neglect by the
licensee was without just cause, then the city may, by resolution, declare that
the franchise of the licensee shall be terminated unless there is compliance by
the licensee within such period as the city may fix.
   (E)   Any decision by the city to terminate or revoke a franchise shall be
made in writing and shall be delivered to the licensee. The licensee may
dispute such determination in an appropriate court, which shall have the power
to review the decision de novo. The licensee may continue to operate the cable
system until all legal appeal procedures have been exhausted. Nothing herein
shall prevent the licensee from filing, at any time, a legal action in any
permissible court or tribunal seeking a declaration or enforcement of
licensee's rights or obligations under its franchise.
(2005 Code, § 13-402) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-403 REMOVAL OF SYSTEMS.
   Upon termination, forfeiture or expiration of the franchise, if not renewed,
the licensee shall remove its cables, wires and appliances from the streets and
other public and private property within the city if the city so requests, and
the city shall follow procedures set forth in the franchise agreement in the
event the licensee fails to remove its cable, wires and appliances from the
streets and other public and private property within the city.
(2005 Code, § 13-403) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-404 PURCHASE.
   When the system or the franchise is offered for sale or at the termination
of the franchise, the city may have the right to purchase the system if set
forth in the franchise agreement.
(2005 Code, § 13-404) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-405 ABANDONMENT.
   The licensee may not abandon the cable system without having given three
months' prior written notice to the city. The city may recover from the
licensee damage for the reasonable cost of removal of the system.
(2005 Code, § 13-405) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-406 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of the system,
the licensee shall notify the city of such fact and such notification shall be
treated as a notification that a change in control of the licensee has taken
place, and the provisions of the franchise governing the consent to transfer or
change in ownership shall apply.
(2005 Code, § 13-406) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 5: SALE, TRANSFER AND RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE
Section
   
13-501   Sale or transfer of franchise
   
13-502   Amendment of franchise ordinance
   
13-503   Franchise renewal
   
13-504   Administration of franchise
   
13-505   Continuity of service
   
13-506   Work performed by others
§ 13-501 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   The sale or transfer of the franchise or sale or transfer of stock so as to
create a new controlling interest, except as permitted and required pursuant to
the terms of the franchise, is prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 13-501) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-502 AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE ORDINANCE.
   After published notice, public hearings and deliberations of the city, this
chapter may be amended upon a majority vote of the city and the written consent
of the licensee.
(2005 Code, § 13-502) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-503 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter may be renewed by the city in
accordance with the then applicable law.
(2005 Code, § 13-503) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-504 ADMINISTRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be responsible
for the continued administration of the franchise.
   (B)   The city shall have continuing regulatory jurisdiction and supervision
over the system and the licensee's operation under the franchise. The city may
issue such reasonable rules and regulations concerning the construction,
operation and maintenance of the system as are consistent with the provisions
of the franchise.
   (C)   The licensee shall construct, operate and maintain the system subject
to the reasonable supervision of all the authorities of the city and in
compliance with all generally applicable laws, ordinances, departmental rules
and regulations affecting the systems.
(2005 Code, § 13-504) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-505 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   Upon the non-renewal of a franchise in accordance with applicable law, the
city may require the licensee to continue to operate the system for an extended
period of time not to exceed six months from the date of such expiration unless
extended by city resolution. The licensee shall, as trustee for its successor
in interest, continue to operate the system under the terms and conditions of
this chapter and the franchise and to provide the regular subscriber service
and any and all of the services that may be provided at that time. In the event
the licensee does not so operate the system, the city may take such steps as
it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to assure continued service to the
subscribers.
(2005 Code, § 13-505) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-506 WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS.
   (A)   Upon request, the licensee shall give notice to the city specifying
the names and addresses of any other entity, other than the licensee, which
performs services pursuant to the franchise; provided, however, that, all
provisions of the franchise remain the responsibility of the licensee.
   (B)   All provisions of the franchise shall apply to any subcontractor or
other performing any work or services pursuant to the provisions of the
franchise.
(2005 Code, § 13-506) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 6: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
13-601   Records and reports
   
13-602   Maintenance and complaints
§ 13-601 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Upon 30 days advance, written notice, the licensee shall make
available for inspection by the city, during reasonable hours, records
maintained by the licensee and reasonably relating to the franchised system and
the operation of the licensee necessary to ensure the licensee's compliance
with the material terms of the franchise.
   (B)   The following records and reports shall be filed with the City Clerk
and in the local office of the licensee upon request by the city:
      (1)   Licensee rules and regulations. Copies of such rules, regulations
and terms and conditions adopted by the licensee for its business; and
      (2)   Revenue. An annual report showing total revenues and gross receipts
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk no later than 120 days following
the end of the licensee's fiscal year.
(2005 Code, § 13-601) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-602 MAINTENANCE AND COMPLAINTS.
   A telephone number for the reception of complaints shall be provided to
subscribers and the licensee shall maintain a repair service capable of
responding to subscriber complaints within 24 hours after receipt of the
complaint pursuant to the agreement. The licensee shall investigate and resolve
all complaints regarding quality of service, equipment malfunction, billing
disputes and other matters pursuant to the procedure set forth in the franchise
agreement. The licensee will bear the cost included in making such repairs,
adjustments or installations unless the licensee deems such repairs necessary
due to neglect or abuse of a subscriber. All costs for repairs necessary due to
neglect or abuse of a subscriber shall be borne by the subscriber.
(2005 Code, § 13-602) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 7: GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS
Section
   
13-701   Security fund
   
13-702   Liability insurance and indemnification
   
13-703   Performance guarantee required
   
13-704   Duty to licensee
   
13-705   No recourse against the city
§ 13-701 SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   At the time a franchise is accepted and at all times thereafter until
the licensee has liquidated all of its obligations with the city, the licensee
shall furnish a security fund approved by the city in such amount as the city
deems to be adequate compensation for damages resulting from the licensee’s
non-performance.
   (B)   The city may, from year to year, in its sole discretion, reduce the
amount of the security fund. The amount of the security fund shall be as set
forth in a franchise agreement.
(2005 Code, § 13-701) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-702 LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city at all times
during the term of the franchise, and maintain throughout the term of the
franchise, liability insurance in such amount as the city may reasonably
require insuring both the city and the licensee with regard to all damages and
penalties which they may legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise
of the franchise. The licensee shall maintain insurance in such amounts as set
forth in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   Every licensee under this article shall indemnify and hold harmless
the city, against and from any and all claims, demands, causes of action,
damages, costs or liabilities in law or in equity of any kind and nature
whatsoever, directly or indirectly resulting from or caused by the negligent
construction, installation, operation or maintenance of the franchised system
within the corporate limits of the city in accordance with the indemnification
provision(s) set forth in the franchise. Every licensee shall, during the term
of his or her franchise, maintain in full force and effect, written by a
company or companies authorized and qualified to do business in the state, and
serviced through an authorized agent doing business within the city and
satisfactory to the city insurance as set forth in the franchise or, if not set
forth in the franchise, as follows:
      (1)   Worker's compensation insurance in compliance with the law of the
state and employees' liability insurance with limits of $100,000 each accident:
         (a)   Five hundred thousand dollars for disease (policy limit); and
         (b)   One hundred thousand dollars for disease (each employee).
      (2)   (a)   General liability limits of general aggregate: $2,000,000;
         (b)   Products completed operations aggregate: $2,000,000;
         (c)   Personal and advertising injury: $1,000,000; each occurrence
$1,000,000; and
         (d)   Fire damage: $50,000, on occurrence form of liability.
      (3)   Auto liability of $500,000, combined single limits using Symbol 1
"any auto" with hired auto's included.
   (C)   Failure to carry and maintain such insurance in full force and effect
and furnish continuing evidence thereof, in the required amounts, may, in the
discretion of the City Council, result in termination of such franchise in the
manner and under the conditions otherwise specified in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 13-702) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-703 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE REQUIRED.
   Every applicant under the provisions of this article shall, together with
its application for the franchise hereunder, and acceptance of the terms and
conditions of this chapter, file with the City Clerk a U.S. Treasury Department
approved corporate surety performance bond in the amount of $25,000, which will
be discharged and released in case of the completion and installation of the
system as herein required within 18 months after the date of commencement of
construction; provided, the licensee commenced construction within 120 days or
completion of pole agreements, whichever is of the latest date, and shall have
completed the construction of the system and is offering wired or cabled
television or radio service to not less than 100% of the land area within the
existing corporate limits of such city as of the effective date of the grant of
each respective franchise, within 18 months; further provided, the preparations
of the proposed system shall constitute the starting or commencement of
construction hereunder; and, further provided, a map of such basic survey shall
be filed with the City Administrator within such 120 days or after completion
of pole agreements, whichever is the latest date. The foregoing provision shall
not apply to applicants for renewal of a franchise previously granted by the
city.
(2005 Code, § 13-703) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-704 DUTY TO LICENSEE.
   Nothing contained in the franchise shall relieve any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the
licensee’s facilities while performing any work connected with grading or
changing the line of any street or public place or with the construction or
reconstruction of any sewer or water system.
(2005 Code, § 13-704) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-705 NO RECOURSE AGAINST THE CITY.
   Except as permitted by applicable law, the licensee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against city or its officials, agents or employees for any loss,
costs, expense or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of the
franchise or because of the enforcement of the franchise.
(2005 Code, § 13-705) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE 8: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
Section
   
13-801   Subscriber privacy
   
13-802   Discrimination prohibited
§ 13-801 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   The licensee shall comply with all applicable state and federal requirements
concerning subscriber privacy, including without limitation 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(2005 Code, § 13-801) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
§ 13-802 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The licensee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, age or sex. The licensee shall
comply at all times with all other executive and administrative orders relating
to non- discrimination which are hereby incorporated and made part of this
chapter by reference.
   (B)   The licensee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of the FCC, state and local regulations, and as amended from time
to time.
(2005 Code, § 13-802) (Ord. 2484, passed 7-1-2025)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 2005 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites                  Code Section
3-501 et seq.                  2-208
3,113.03                       5-425
Ch. 10, Art. 4                 5-604
13-315                         10-505
14-543 through 14-549          8-711
16-624                         11-1217
16-681                         3-106
17-613                         Adopting Ordinance
17-614                         Adopting Ordinance
18-503                         3-202
18-1001 through 18-1006        1-103
18-1720                        6-302
18-1722                        9-1003
18-1736                        5-425
18-1741.01                     5-425
18-2101 et seq.                2-210
19-901 through 19-914          11-801
19-904                         11-904
                               12-102,
                               12-104,
                               12-107,
19-1825 through 19-1848        12-210,
                               12-211,
                               12-303,
                               12-305
19-1827                        2-209
19-1827 through 19-1823        2-209
19-2501                        8-301
20-203                         6-106
25-1062                        9-810
28-520                         6-106
28-521                         6-106
29-830 through 29-835          3-120
Ch. 32                         1-801
                               10-101,
                               10-102,
53-101 through 53-1,122        10-105,
                               10-109,
                               10-120,
                               10-122
53-102                         10-122
53-124                         10-122
53-134                         10-122
54-603                         6-102
Ch. 60                         5-101
Ch. 60, Art. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 17 5-603,
                               5-604
60-6,190                       5-305
60-6,294                       8-310
69-2427 to 69-2449             6-216
71-1557                        11-101,
                               11-513
71-1908                        11-101
76-2,110                       11-1215
81-1501 to 81-1533             3-702
84-712.05                      2-211
                               
 
 
REFERENCES TO 2005 CODE
2005 Code 2018 Code
2005 Code  2018 Code
1-101      1-101
1-102      1-102
1-103      1-103
1-104      1-104
1-201      1-201
1-202      1-202
1-203      1-203
1-204      1-204
1-205      1-205
1-206      1-206
1-207      1-206
1-208      1-206
1-301      1-301
1-302      1-302
1-303      1-303
1-304      1-304
1-305      1-305
1-306      1-306
1-307      1-307
1-308      1-308
1-309      1-309
1-310      1-310
1-311      1-311
1-312      1-311
1-313      1-312
1-314      1-313
1-315      1-314
1-316      1-315
1-317      1-316
1-318      1-317
1-319      1-318
1-320      1-319
1-321      1-320
1-401      1-401
1-402      1-401
1-403      1-402
1-404      1-403
1-405      1-403
1-406      1-403
1-501      1-501
1-601      1-601
1-602      1-601
1-603      1-602
1-604      1-603
1-605      1-604
1-606      1-605
1-607      1-606
1-608      1-607
1-609      1-608
1-610      1-609
1-611      1-610
1-612      1-611
1-613      1-612
1-701      1-701
1-702      1-702
1-703      1-703
1-704      1-704
1-705      1-705
1-706      1-706
1-707      1-707
1-708      1-708
1-709      1-709
1-710      1-710
1-711      1-711
1-801      1-801
1-802      1-802
1-803      1-803
1-804      1-804
1-805      1-805
1-806      1-806
1-807      1-807
1-808      1-808
1-809      1-809
1-810      1-810
1-811      1-811
1-901      1-901
1-902      1-902
1-903      1-903
1-904      1-904
1-905      1-905
1-906      1-906
1-907      1-907
1-908      1-908
1-909      1-909
1-910      1-910
1-911      1-911
1-912      1-912
1-913      1-913
1-914      1-914
1-915      1-915
1-916      1-916
1-917      1-917
1-918      1-918
1-919      1-919
1-920      1-920
1-921      1-921
1-922      1-922
1-923      1-923
1-924      1-924
1-925      1-925
1-926      1-926
1-1001     1-1001
1-1101     1-1101
1-1102     1-1102
1-1201     1-1201
2-101      2-101
2-201      2-201
2-202      2-202
2-203      2-203
2-204      2-204
2-207      2-207
2-208      2-208
2-209      2-209
2-210      2-210
2-301      2-301
3-101      3-101
3-102      3-102
3-103      3-103
3-104      3-104
3-105      3-105
3-106      3-106
3-107      3-107
3-108      3-108
3-109      3-109
3-110      3-110
3-111      3-111
3-112      3-112
3-113      3-113
3-114      3-114
3-115      3-115
3-116      3-116
3-117      3-117
3-118      3-118
3-119      3-119
3-120      3-120
3-121      3-121
3-122      3-122
3-123      3-123
3-124      3-124
3-125      3-125
3-126      3-126
3-127      3-127
3-128      3-128
3-129      3-129
3-130      3-130
3-131      3-131
3-201      3-201
3-202      3-202
3-203      3-202
3-204      3-202
3-205      3-202
3-206      3-202
3-207      3-202
3-208      3-202
3-209      3-202
3-210      3-203
3-211      3-204
3-212      3-204
3-213      3-204
3-214      3-204
3-215      3-205
3-216      3-205
3-217      3-205
3-218      3-205
3-219      3-205
3-220      3-205
3-221      3-205
3-222      3-206
3-223      3-206
3-224      3-206
3-225      3-206
3-226      3-206
3-227      3-206
3-228      3-207
3-229      3-207
3-230      3-207
3-231      3-207
3-232      3-207
3-233      3-207
3-234      3-207
3-235      3-207
3-236      3-207
3-237      3-207
3-238      3-207
3-239      3-207
3-240      3-207
3-241      3-208
3-242      3-209
3-243      3-209
3-244      3-209
3-245      3-210
3-246      3-211
3-247      3-212
3-248      3-212
3-249      3-209
3-250      3-213
3-251      3-214
3-252      3-214
3-253      3-214
3-254      3-215
3-255      3-215
3-256      3-216
3-301      3-301
3-302      3-302
3-303      3-303
3-304      3-304
3-305      3-305
3-306      3-306
3-307      3-307
3-308      3-308
3-309      3-309
3-310      3-310
3-311      3-311
3-312      3-312
3-313      3-313
3-314      3-314
3-315      3-315
3-316      3-316
3-401      3-401
3-402      3-402
3-403      3-403
3-501      3-501
3-502      3-501
3-503      3-502
3-504      3-502
3-505      3-502
3-601      3-601
3-602      3-602
3-701      3-701
3-702      3-702
3-801      3-801
3-802      3-802
3-901      3-901
3-902      3-902
3-903      3-903
3-904      3-904
3-905      3-905
3-906      3-906
3-907      3-907
3-908      3-908
3-909      3-909
3-910      3-910
3-911      3-911
3-912      3-912
3-913      3-913
3-914      3-914
3-915      3-915
3-916      3-916
3-917      3-917
3-918      3-918
3-919      3-919
3-1001     3-1001
3-1101     3-1101
4-101      4-101
4-102      4-102
4-103      4-103
4-104      4-104
4-201      4-201
4-202      4-201
4-203      4-201
4-204      4-202
4-205      4-203
4-206      4-204
4-301      4-301
4-302      4-302
4-303      4-303
4-304      4-304
4-305      4-305
4-306      4-306
4-401      4-401
4-402      4-402
5-101      5-101
5-201      5-201
5-202      5-201
5-203      5-202
5-204      5-203
5-205      5-204
5-206      5-205
5-207      5-206
5-208      5-207
5-209      5-207
5-210      5-207
5-211      5-207
5-212      5-208
5-213      5-208
5-214      5-208
5-215      5-208
5-216      5-209
5-217      5-209
5-218      5-210
5-219      5-211
5-220      5-212
5-221      5-213
5-222      5-214
5-301      5-301
5-302      5-302
5-303      5-303
5-304      5-303
5-305      5-304
5-306      5-305
5-307      5-305
5-308      5-305
5-310      5-306
5-311      5-306
5-312      5-307
5-313      5-308
5-314      5-309
5-315      5-310
5-316      5-310
5-317      5-311
5-318      5-312
5-319      5-312
5-320      5-313
5-321      5-314
5-322      5-315
5-323      5-316
5-324      5-317
5-325      5-318
5-326      5-319
5-327      5-320
5-328      5-321
5-329      5-321
5-330      5-321
5-331      5-322
5-332      5-323
5-333      5-324
5-334      5-325
5-335      5-326
5-401      5-401
5-402      5-402
5-403      5-403
5-404      5-404
5-405      5-405
5-406      5-406
5-407      5-407
5-408      5-408
5-409      5-409
5-410      5-410
5-411      5-411
5-412      5-412
5-413      5-413
5-414      5-414
5-415      5-415
5-416      5-416
5-417      5-417
5-418      5-418
5-419      5-419
5-420      5-420
5-421      5-421
5-422      5-422
5-423      5-423
5-424      5-424
5-425      5-425
5-426      5-426
5-427      5-427
5-428      5-428
5-501      5-501
5-502      5-502
5-503      5-503
5-504      5-504
5-505      5-505
5-506      5-506
5-507      5-507
5-508      5-507
5-509      5-508
5-601      5-601
5-602      5-602
5-603      5-603
5-604      5-603
5-605      5-603
5-606      5-604
5-607      5-604
5-608      5-604
5-609      5-604
5-610      5-604
5-611      5-604
5-701      5-701
5-702      5-702
5-703      5-703
5-704      5-704
5-801      5-801
5-802      5-802
5-803      5-803
5-804      5-804
5-805      5-805
5-806      5-806
5-807      5-807
5-808      5-808
5-809      5-809
5-810      5-809
5-901      5-901
5-902      5-902
5-903      5-903
5-904      5-904
5-905      5-905
5-906      5-906
5-907      5-907
5-908      5-908
5-909      5-909
5-910      5-910
5-911      5-911
5-912      5-912
5-1001     5-1001
6-201      6-201
6-202      6-202
6-203      6-203
6-204      6-204
6-205      6-205
6-206      6-206
6-207      6-207
6-208      6-208
6-209      6-209
6-210      6-210
6-211      6-211
6-212      6-212
6-213      6-213
6-214      6-214
6-215      6-215
6-216      6-216
6-217      6-217
6-218      6-218
6-219      6-219
6-220      6-220
6-221      6-221
6-222      6-222
6-223      6-223
6-224      6-224
6-225      6-225
6-226      6-226
6-227      6-227
6-228      6-228
6-229      6-229
6-230      6-230
6-231      6-231
6-232      6-232
6-301      6-301
6-302      6-302
6-303      6-303
6-304      6-304
6-401      6-401
6-402      6-402
6-403      6-402
6-404      6-403
6-501      6-501
7-101      7-101
7-102      7-102
7-103      7-103
7-104      7-104
7-105      7-105
7-106      7-106
7-107      7-107
7-108      7-108
7-109      7-109
7-201      7-201
7-202      7-202
7-203      7-203
7-204      7-204
7-205      7-204
7-206      7-205
7-207      7-206
7-208      7-207
7-209      7-208
7-301      7-301
7-302      7-302
7-303      7-303
7-304      7-304
7-305      7-305
7-401      7-401
8-101      8-101
8-102      8-102
8-103      8-103
8-104      8-103
8-105      8-104
8-106      8-105
8-107      8-106
8-108      8-106
8-109      8-107
8-110      8-108
8-301      8-301
8-302      8-302
8-303      8-303
8-304      8-304
8-305      8-305
8-306      8-306
8-307      8-307
8-308      8-308
8-309      8-309
8-310      8-310
8-311      8-311
8-312      8-312
8-313      8-313
8-314      8-313
8-315      8-314
8-401      8-401
8-402      8-402
8-501      8-501
8-502      8-502
8-503      8-503
8-504      8-504
8-505      8-505
8-601      8-601
8-602      8-602
8-603      8-603
8-604      8-604
8-605      8-605
8-606      8-606
8-607      8-607
8-701      8-701
8-702      8-702
8-703      8-702
8-704      8-702
8-705      8-702
8-706      8-702
8-707      8-703
8-708      8-704
8-709      8-705
8-710      8-706
8-711      8-707
8-712      8-708
8-713      8-709
8-714      8-710
8-715      8-711
8-716      8-712
8-717      8-713
8-718      8-714
8-719      8-716
8-801      8-801
9-101      9-101
9-102      9-102
9-103      9-103
9-201      9-201
9-202      9-202
9-203      9-203
9-204      9-204
9-301      9-301
9-302      9-302
9-303      9-303
9-304      9-304
9-305      9-305
9-306      9-306
9-307      9-307
9-308      9-308
9-309      9-309
9-310      9-310
9-401      9-401
9-402      9-402
9-501      9-501
9-502      9-502
9-503      9-503
9-504      9-504
9-505      9-505
9-601      9-601
9-602      9-602
9-603      9-603
9-701      9-701
9-702      9-702
9-703      9-703
9-704      9-704
9-705      9-705
9-706      9-705
9-707      9-705
9-708      9-705
           9-801,
9-802      9-802,
           9-803,
           9-804
9-803      9-805
           9-806,
           9-807,
           9-808,
           9-809,
           9-810,
9-804      9-811,
           9-812,
           9-813,
           9-814,
           9-815,
           9-816
9-901      9-901
10-101     10-101
10-102     10-102
10-103     10-103
10-104     10-104
10-105     10-105
10-106     10-106
10-107     10-107
10-108     10-108
10-109     10-109
10-110     10-110
10-111     10-111
10-112     10-112
10-113     10-113
10-115     10-114
10-116     10-115
10-117     10-116
10-118     10-117
10-119     10-118
10-120     10-119
10-121     10-120
10-122     10-121
10-123     10-122
10-124     10-122
10-201     10-201
10-202     10-202
10-203     10-203
10-204     10-204
10-205     10-205
10-310     10-301
10-405     10-401
10-406     10-402
10-501     10-501
10-502     10-502
10-503     10-503
10-504     10-504
10-601     10-601
10-602     10-602
10-603     10-603
10-604     10-604
10-605     10-605
10-606     10-606
10-607     10-607
10-608     10-608
10-609     10-609
10-701     10-701
10-801     10-801
11-101     11-101
11-102     11-102
11-103     11-103
11-104     11-104
11-105     11-105
11-201     11-201
11-202     11-202
11-203     11-203
11-204     11-204
11-205     11-205
11-206     11-206
11-207     11-207
11-208     11-208
11-209     11-209
11-210     11-210
11-301     11-301
11-302     11-302
11-303     11-303
11-304     11-304
11-305     11-305
11-306     11-306
11-307     11-307
11-401     11-401
11-402     11-402
11-403     11-403
11-501     11-501
11-502     11-502
11-503     11-503
11-504     11-504
11-505     11-505
11-506     11-506
11-507     11-507
11-508     11-508
11-509     11-509
11-510     11-510
11-511     11-511
11-512     11-512
11-513     11-513
11-514     11-514
11-515     11-515
11-516     11-516
11-601     11-601
11-602     11-602
11-603     11-603
11-604     11-604
11-605     11-605
11-606     11-606
11-607     11-607
11-608     11-608
11-701     11-701
11-702     11-702
11-703     11-703
11-704     11-704
11-705     11-705
11-706     11-706
11-707     11-707
11-708     11-708
11-709     11-709
11-710     11-710
11-711     11-711
11-712     11-712
11-713     11-713
11-714     11-714
11-715     11-715
11-716     11-716
11-717     11-717
11-718     11-718
11-719     11-719
11-801     11-801
11-802     11-802
11-803     11-803
11-804     11-804
11-805     11-805
11-806     11-806
11-901     11-901
11-902     11-902
11-903     11-903
11-904     11-904
11-905     11-905
11-906     11-906
11-907     11-907
11-908     11-908
11-909     11-909
11-1001    11-1001
11-1002    11-1002
11-1003    11-1003
11-1004    11-1004
11-1005    11-1005
11-1006    11-1006
11-1007    11-1007
11-1008    11-1008
11-1101    11-1101
11-1102    11-1102
11-1103    11-1103
11-1104    11-1104
11-1105    11-1105
11-1106    11-1106
11-1107    11-1106
11-1108    11-1107
11-1109    11-1108
11-1110    11-1109
11-1111    11-1110
11-1112    11-1111
11-1113    11-1111
11-1114    11-1112
11-1115    11-1113
11-1116    11-1114
11-1117    11-1115
11-1118    11-1116
11-1119    11-1117
11-1120    11-1118
11-1121    11-1119
11-1122    11-1119
11-1123    11-1120
11-1124    11-1121
11-1125    11-1122
11-1126    11-1123
11-1127    11-1124
11-1128    11-1124
11-1129    11-1124
11-1130    11-1125
11-1131    11-1126
11-1132    11-1127
11-1201    11-1201
11-1202    11-1202
11-1203    11-1203
11-1204    11-1204
11-1205    11-1205
11-1206    11-1206
11-1207    11-1207
11-1208    11-1207
11-1209    11-1207
11-1210    11-1207
11-1211    11-1207
11-1212    11-1208
11-1213    11-1208
11-1214    11-1208
11-1215    11-1208
11-1216    11-1208
11-1217    11-1208
11-1218    11-1208
11-1219    11-1208
11-1220    11-1209
11-1221    11-1209
11-1222    11-1209
11-1223    11-1209
11-1224    11-1209
11-1225    11-1210
11-1226    11-1211
11-1227    11-1211
11-1228    11-1211
11-1229    11-1212
11-1230    11-1213
11-1231    11-1214
11-1232    11-1215
11-1233    11-1215
11-1233.01 11-1215
11-1234    11-1215
11-1235    11-1216
11-1236    11-1216
11-1237    11-1216
11-1238    11-1216
11-1239    11-1216
11-1240    11-1216
11-1241    11-1216
11-1242    11-1216
11-1243    11-1216
11-1244    11-1216
11-1245    11-1216
11-1246    11-1217
11-1247    11-1217
11-1248    11-1217
11-1249    11-1217
11-1250    11-1217
11-1251    11-1217
11-1252    11-1217
11-1253    11-1217
11-1254    11-1218
11-1255    11-1218
11-1256    11-1218
11-1257    11-1218
11-1258    11-1218
11-1259    11-1218
11-1260    11-1218
11-1261    11-1218
11-1262    11-1218
11-1263    11-1218
11-1264    11-1219
11-1265    11-1219
11-1266    11-1220
11-1267    11-1221
11-1268    11-1222
11-1270    11-1223
11-1271    11-1224
12-101     12-101
12-102     12-102
12-103     12-103
12-104     12-104
12-105     12-105
12-106     12-106
12-107     12-107
12-201     12-201
12-202     12-202
12-203     12-203
12-204     12-204
12-205     12-205
12-206     12-206
12-207     12-207
12-208     12-208
12-209     12-209
12-210     12-210
12-301     12-301
12-302     12-302
12-303     12-303
12-304     12-304
12-305     12-305
12-306     12-306
12-307     12-307
13-101     13-101
13-102     13-102
13-103     13-103
13-105     13-105
13-106     13-106
13-107     13-107
13-108     13-108
13-109     13-109
13-110     13-110
13-111     13-111
13-201     13-201
13-202     13-202
13-203     13-203
13-204     13-204
13-205     13-205
13-206     13-206
13-207     13-207
13-208     13-208
13-209     13-209
13-301     13-301
13-401     13-401
13-402     13-402
13-403     13-403
13-404     13-404
13-405     13-405
13-406     13-406
13-501     13-501
13-502     13-502
13-503     13-503
13-504     13-504
13-505     13-505
13-506     13-506
13-601     13-601
13-602     13-602
13-701     13-701
13-702     13-702
13-703     13-703
13-704     13-704
13-705     13-705
13-801     13-801
13-802     13-802
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
755      - -         5-305
2359     - -         11-210
779      10-18-1977  6-302
906      10-5-1982   11-1215
2150     2-3-1998    11-202
2224     4-2-2002    2-211
2280     5-1-2007    10-801 -
                     10-821
                     6-100 -
2297     1-20-2009   6-120,
                     6-122 -
                     6-132
2305     8-18-2009   11-517
2317     12-1-2009   9-601 
                     9-603
2318     12-1-2009   9-305
2322     4-20-2010   6-301,
                     6-302
2328     2-15-2011   5-801 
                     5-809
2329     2-15-2011   8-201 
                     8-210
2331     3-15-2011   7-302
2333     3-15-2011   9-604
2341     11-1-2011   1-808
2342     11-15-2011  11-403
2343     12-6-2011   6-103
2346     4-3-2012    6-302
2353     3-19-2013   3-132
2354     3-19-2013   3-209
2356     6-18-2013   5-426
2358     9-17-2013   11-515
2360     5-6-2014    11-715
2366     12-16-2014  5-1001
2372     4-21-2015   3-503
2376     10-6-2015   5-427
                     12-201,
                     12-203,
2381     5-17-2016   12-209,
                     12-211,
                     12-212
2382     6-7-2016    6-301,
                     6-303
2383     8-16-2016   10-401
2387     2-7-2017    11-202
2388     2-7-2017    11-203
2389     2-7-2017    11-204
2390     2-7-2017    11-205
2391     2-7-2017    11-206
2393     3-7-2017    11-515
2404     12-5-2017   5-426
2406     2-6-2018    9-201
2411     3-6-2018    10-501
2412     4-3-2018    10-116
2413     3-6-2018    11-210
2415     3-20-2018   5-426
2416     7-18-2018   2-207
2420     2-19-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2421     2-5-2019    9-601
2422     2-5-2019    9-602
2424     3-19-2019   1-1101
2427     6-18-2019   1-609
2431     10-15-2019  6-302
2434     11-19-2019  2-210
                     8-703 -
2435     2-3-2020    8-708,
                     8-711
2437     6-16-2020   10-505
2440     9-15-2020   10-116
2441     11-3-2020   5-426
2444     12-15-2020  5-426
2449     - -         7-209
2452     1-4-2022    2-210
2453     12-7-2021   6-233
2454     12-21-2021  1-808
2456     - -         8-715,
                     8-716
2457     6-21-2022   1-611,
                     1-612
2459     7-5-2022    11-1207
2462     - -         9-1001 -
                     9-1008
2464     6-6-2023    2-212
2467     11-7-2023   5-427
2468     11-21-2023  8-103
2482     12-3-2024   2-201
2483     1-21-2025   5-1001
                     13-101 –
                     13-103,
                     13-105 –
                     13-111,
                     13-201 –
                     13-209,
                     13-301,
                     13-401 –
2484     7-1-2025    13-406,
                     13-501 –
                     13-506,
                     13-601,
                     13-602,
                     13-701 –
                     13-705,
                     13-801,
                     13-802
                    
 
 
