HUMBOLDT, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 683, passed 5-21-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Humboldt Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Humboldt,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Richardson County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or that person’s agents or servants, who violates any of
the provisions of this municipal code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 572, passed 6-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
   
11.02   City wards
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription: “Seal, City
of Humboldt, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other
official papers issued by order of the City Council and countersigned by the
Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. RS 17-502
§ 11.02 CITY WARDS.
   (A)   Humboldt Ward I will be described as all that area within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Humboldt lying north of 714 Road also known
as Hwy 4; and all that area of the City of Humboldt located East of Edward
Street at the North starting point or beginning at 714 Road or Hwy 4 running
South to 9th Street thence going West to Central Avenue thence South on Central
Avenue to 1st Street thence East to Park Avenue thence South on Park Avenue to
Railroad Street thence East to Nemaha Street and thence South to the South
border of the corporate boundary line of the City of Humboldt.
   (B)   Humboldt Ward II will be described as all that area of the City of
Humboldt located West of Edward Street at the North starting point or beginning
at 714 Road or Hwy 4 running South to 9th Street thence going West to Central
Avenue thence South on Central Avenue to 1st Street thence East to Park Avenue
thence South on Park Avenue to Railroad Street thence East to Nemaha Street and
thence South to the South border of the corporate boundary line of the City of
Humboldt.
   (C)   That the map showing the revised boundaries of City Council Ward 1 and
City Council Ward 2 is attached and incorporated herein. Said boundaries shall
be the voting boundaries until further notice:
(Ord. 660, passed 11-2-2021)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   WAIVER/FINE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL; ORDINANCES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.32   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.33   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.34   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.35   Publication or posting
   
30.36   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.37   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.38   Amendments and revisions
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, being Neb.
RS 32-101 et seq. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular
meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide general
election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 600, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107 and 32-533
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council. Any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over the veto
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any ordinance, and return the same with his or her objections
in writing at the next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a
law without his or her signature.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within one-half mile of the corporate limits of
the city.
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 625, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-114 and 17-117
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Councilmembers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Councilmembers at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain,
as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Councilmembers at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Councilmembers elected
in the manner provided in the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. No
person shall be eligible to the office of Councilmember who is not at the time
of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected
and a registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Councilmember who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Councilmembers at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restriction on holding other office/employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 32-
109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Councilmembers present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city-
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Councilmember.
   (C)   If a Councilmember has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Councilmember shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce, and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting
fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.31 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.32 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions
shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.31 for the introduction of ordinances.
   (B)   The issue raised by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in
accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the
City Council.
   (C)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
   (D)   The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.33 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Humboldt, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.34 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days, unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement, except that this requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case this requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 30.49) (Ord. 627, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 30.35 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.36 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.37 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.35 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the City Council, and be entered of record
on the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.38 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   City Clerk
   
31.04   City Treasurer
   
31.05   Treasurer’s reports
   
31.06   City Attorney
   
31.07   City Physician
   
31.08   County Sheriff as law enforcement officer
   
31.09   City Fire Chief
   
31.10   City Engineer; special engineer
   
31.11   City Street Commissioner
   
31.12   City Building Inspector
   
31.13   Civil Defense Director
   
31.14   Hearing officer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
   (C)   Appointed officials may be removed at any time by the Mayor, except
that if the municipality has a City Water Commissioner, he or she may at any
time, for sufficient cause, be removed from office by a two-thirds’ vote of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 406, passed 10-18-1977; Ord. 607, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Appointments generally, see Neb. RS 17-107
   Law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1438
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107 and 17-604
   Water Commissioner, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of the
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The
offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment, or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
   (B)   The office of “City Clerk” and “Clerk” as defined in the city
ordinances and the applicable statutes of laws of the state, and the office of
“City Treasurer” and “Treasurer” as defined in the city ordinances and the
applicable statutes and laws of the state shall be merged and combined so that
one officer shall perform and be responsible for the official duties of both
offices. Nothing in this division (B) shall be construed to be in conflict with
division (A) above regarding the salary or compensation for said officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 485, passed 11-6-1984; Ord. 647, passed 3-21-2019)
Statutory reference:  
   Merger of offices or employment see Neb. RS 17-108.02
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 31.03 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, being Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the General Funds
of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division (C) shall not
apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution
books, or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records
Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 407, passed 10-18-1977; Ord. 624, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 18-1701, 19-1102, and 19-1103
§ 31.04 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
Council, may use this failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in
that year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 628, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2202,
77-2209, 77-2210, and 77-2212
§ 31.05 TREASURER’S REPORTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and
other times as the City Council may deem necessary, render an account to the
City Council under oath showing the financial state of the municipality at that
date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid therefrom,
and the balance of money remaining in the treasury. He or she shall accompany
the account with a statement of all receipts and disbursements, together with
all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. He or she shall also produce
depository evidence that all municipal money is in a solvent and going bank in
the name of the municipality. If the City Treasurer shall neglect or fail for
the space of ten days from the end of each and every month to render the
accounts as aforesaid, the City Council shall by resolution declare the office
vacant and appoint some person to fill the vacancy. The City Treasurer shall be
present at each regular meeting of the City Council, at which time he or she
shall read and file his or her monthly report.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually in a legal
newspaper having general circulation within the municipality, within 60 days
following the close of the municipal fiscal year, a statement of the receipts
and expenditures by funds of the municipality for the preceding fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-1101) (Prior Code, § 31.05)
Statutory reference:
   Annual report required to be published, see Neb. RS 19-1101 and 19-1103
   Statutory duties, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609
§ 31.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   (A)   The City Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality and perform the duties devolving upon the position as the medical
advisor of the Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the municipality, the City Physician shall immediately investigate the
injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He or she shall then
report the results of the investigation with the name of the party injured and
all other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He or she
shall make all physical examinations and necessary laboratory tests incident
thereto and issue health certificates as are required by ordinance. For the
purpose of making examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property and
the state of health of the inhabitants therein, he or she shall have the right
at all reasonable hours to go upon and enter all premises, buildings, or other
structures in the municipality.
   (B)   He or she shall perform any other duties as may be required by the
laws of the state and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to do so
by the City Council, he or she shall disinfect or fumigate the premises, or
persons in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined, and to
call upon indigent sick persons and perform other professional services at the
direction of the City Council. The City Physician shall receive as compensation
for services a sum as the City Council may from time to time set. He or she
shall receive no compensation for services as a member of the City Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Health created, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 31.08 COUNTY SHERIFF AS LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act
as Health Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the
municipality appoints another person to those offices. He or she shall file the
necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of municipal ordinances
and shall make all necessary reports required by the municipal ordinances or
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 31.08)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to contract with county for police services, see Neb. RS 19-3801
§ 31.09 CITY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 31.10 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.11 CITY STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The City Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and directives of
the City Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all work on
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the municipality and shall
perform other duties as the City Council may require. It shall be his or her
responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly and
that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the
City Council, make a detailed report to the City Council on the condition of
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the municipality and
shall direct its attention to improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the municipality, along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He or she shall issue permits and assume other duties as the City
Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 31.11)
Statutory reference:
   Duties, see Neb. RS 17-119
§ 31.12 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings and
structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall
investigate all complaints, whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of
a petition, alleging and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances
exists and that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation.
   (B)   The Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying himself
or herself to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by
the owner or occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints
received, inspection reports, orders, and complaints issued. The records shall
be available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual
report, including statistics based on the records kept.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the
furnishing of labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration,
or maintenance of a building, except where he or she is the owner of a
building, and shall not act as an agent for any dealer or as an agent for the
sale, lease, or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report
to the City Council as often as it may deem necessary, and shall have other
duties and issue permits as it may direct. The Building Inspector may be
removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.12)
§ 31.13 CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 81, Art. 8, the City Council may appoint a Civil
Defense Director to establish and implement a civil defense organization in
accordance with the state civil defense plan and program. The term of office
shall be for one year, unless sooner removed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.13)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, see Neb. RS 17-604
   Local government emergency management, see Neb. RS 81-829.46
§ 31.14 HEARING OFFICER.
   The hearing officer shall be appointed annually and shall serve as a hearing
officer for those matters which the municipal code requires the appointment of
such officer. The hearing officer shall follow the requirements set forth by
municipal code and state law required of such position, which shall include
cooperation with the City Clerk in setting hearing dates, conducting hearings
as required by law; administering oaths, compelling witnesses to appear,
signing official documents, applying and following procedural rules adopted by
the municipality; and rendering written decisions within the time period set
forth by law. Upon rendering a decision, the hearing officer shall deliver the
written decisions to the City Clerk immediately for dissemination. The hearing
officer shall be provided supplies in order to carry out the hearing officer’s
duties including office supplies, a secretary, recorder, or recording device
for hearings. All appeal documents, hearing records, and decisions shall be
maintained by the City Clerk as custodian of records for the municipality.
(Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.06   Cemetery Board
   
32.07   Nursing Home Board
   
32.08   Housing Authority Board
   
32.09   City Tree Board
   
32.10   Community Redevelopment Authority
   
32.11   Auditorium Board
Utility Departments
   
32.25   Municipal Water Department; operation and funding
   
32.26   Municipal Sewer Department; operation and funding
Fire Department
   
32.40   Operation and funding
   
32.41   Fire Chief
   
32.42   Membership
   
32.43   Fires
   
32.44   Distant fires
   
32.45   Power of arrest
   
32.46   Fire investigation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who shall be
residents of the municipality and who shall serve terms of four years. The City
Council shall appoint the members of the Library Board by a majority vote.
Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the
Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change
in the number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those
members shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In case of any
vacancy by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term.
   (B)   No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any services
rendered as a member of the Library Board. The City Council may require the
members of the Library Board to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (C)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in January of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and
to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
   (D)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or a
majority of the members of the Board.
   (E)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and
all other employees. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all
employees of the library, including the librarian.
   (F)   The Library Board shall have general charge of the municipal library
and shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management,
operation, and use of the library. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the City Council. The Board shall be responsible
for making reports and performing additional duties as the City Council may
designate from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 417, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Authority; regulations, see Neb. RS 51-202
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from the
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first
available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of an
individual. For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of residents
shall mean 500 residents. The term of each regular member shall be three years,
except that approximately one-third of the regular members of the first
Commission shall serve for terms of one year, one-third for terms of two years,
and one-third for terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office
until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing
before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a
majority vote of the members elected to the City Council, for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Mayor and City Council, to
give bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. The Commission shall elect its
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill other of its
officers as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the Secretary
shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the
General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be
within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City Council, and no
expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of the
amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each calendar quarter, except that the City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The Commission shall make its
recommendations to the City Council so that they are received by the City
Council within 90 days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning. The
Commission shall be responsible for making reports and performing any other
duties as the Mayor and City Council may, from time to time, designate.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 439, passed 9-10-1978)
Statutory reference:
   General provisions; Planning Commissions regulated, see Neb. RS 19-924
through 19-929
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the Council
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or otherwise
only by the County Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county in which the
greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such County
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear
and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the district court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the court may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due
cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the
district court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the
state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. The physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor and quarantine officer. The members of the
Board shall serve, without compensation, a one-year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in December of each
year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health
position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at times as the City Council may designate. Special meetings
may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress,
and prevent the occurrence of nuisances, and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect premises and businesses as the City Council may direct. All
members of the Board shall be responsible for making reports and performing
other duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 405, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 32.05 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the creation of a
Board of Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three
members, who shall be residents of the city, and who shall have charge of all
parks and recreational facilities belonging to the city, and shall have the
power to establish rules for the management, care, and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve as a
member of the Board while serving a term of office as Mayor or member of the
City Council. The members of the Board shall serve terms of office of the
length specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the City Council and select members to serve as
Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time,
designate.
§ 32.06 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The City Council shall appoint the Cemetery Board, which shall consist of
six members who are residents of the municipality and who shall serve without
compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall be appointed each
year and may be required in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond
in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties. At the first meeting in December of each
year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson
and Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the
Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at times as the City Council may designate. Special meetings
may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
The Board shall have the general care, management, and supervision of the
municipal cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person, to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting monuments and tombstones on
cemetery lots, and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof, provided
that no religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial
therein, and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and
regulations for the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and
fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the
sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care, management, and administration
of the cemetery. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the City Council, and it shall be responsible for making reports
and performing additional duties as the City Council may designate. No member
of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board while serving a term
of office as a member of the City Council. No member of the Cemetery Board
shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
Statutory reference:
   Authority generally, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 32.07 NURSING HOME BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Nursing Home Board. The Nursing
Home Board shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the
municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a five-year term of office
except upon the adoption of this amendment. The initial appointment of the
members of the board shall be one member shall be appointed for a one-year
term, one member shall be appointed for a two-year term, one member shall be
appointed for a three-year term, and one member shall be appointed for a four-
year term and one member shall be appointed for a five-year term. Thereafter,
each member appointed or reappointed shall serve for a five-year term of
office. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required in the desecration of the City Council to give bond and a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and condition upon the faithful performance of
their duties.
   (B)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in December of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk,
where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Board shall meet at times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three
members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge
of the municipal nursing home and establish appropriate rules and regulations
for the management, operation, and use of the same. All actions of the Board
shall be subject to the review and supervision of the City Council.
   (C)   The Board shall be responsible for making reports and performing
additional duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Nursing Home Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of
the Nursing Home Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 675, passed 5-7-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-966
§ 32.08 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The City Council shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Authority, and the persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until a successor is duly appointed, provided that
all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The City Council may
appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five members of the Housing
Authority for a term as the City Council may determine. No person shall serve
as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of that
Housing Authority. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner shall be filed with the City Clerk, and the certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of the Commissioner. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties.
      (2)   A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the
Authority for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers,
and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote
of the majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of
the Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for services as it may
require. It may employ technical experts and any other officers, agents, and
employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications, duties,
compensations, and terms of office. The Authority may delegate any other powers
and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper.
      (3)   During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
Commissioner, officer, or employee of the City Housing Authority shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any Commissioner,
officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any interest, or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any interest prior to appointment or employment as
commissioner, officer, or employee, the Commissioner shall immediately disclose
the interest in writing to the Authority, and the disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any
action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she
has any interest, provided that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition
of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in connection with
any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions
for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project, or to act as
trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which
are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (4)   (a)   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send
a notice of removal to the Commissioner, which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her.
         (b)   Unless within ten days from the receipt of the notice the
Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the City
Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office.
         (c)   If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the City
Council of the municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner
shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the City Council
shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld.
         (d)   If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue
to hold his or her position.
      (5)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the City Council on all information.
   (B)   Housing Authority; continued existence as a housing agency.
      (1)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and
in existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
      (2)   (a)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations
consistent with the State Housing Agency Act.
         (b)   All property, rights in land, buildings, records, and equipment
and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of the authority belong to
the agency as successor.
         (c)   All obligations, debts, commitments, and liabilities of the
authority are obligations, debts, commitments, and liabilities of the successor
agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the
authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which
is to completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following
January 1, 2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it
existed prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the
successor agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or
against the agency notwithstanding that the resolution or action is
inconsistent with, not authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the
State Housing Agency Act.
      (4)   All Commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any prior law on
January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the
State Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 562, passed 9-5-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Annual report required, see Neb. RS 71-15, 141
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 32.09 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board, which shall
consist of four members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The term of the four persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
four years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only two years. In the event that a vacancy occurs during
the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, counsel, and develop a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in
public ways, streets, and alleys.
      (2)   The plan will be presented to the City Council and upon its
acceptance and approval shall constitute the Official Comprehensive City Tree
Plan for the city. The Board shall review annually and update if needed the
Comprehensive City Tree Plan. The Board shall prepare and present an annual
work plan to the City Council for its acceptance and approval.
   (E)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
questioning coming within the scope of its work.
   (F)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 431, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 32.10 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., there is hereby created a
community redevelopment authority which shall be known as Community
Redevelopment Authority of the city.
   (B)   The Authority may exercise all of the power and authority granted to a
community redevelopment authority under Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2144.
   (C)   Within 90 days after passage of this section, the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council, shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Authority. The terms of the members of the Authority initially appointed
shall be for one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years, as
designated by the Mayor in making the respective appointments. As the terms of
the members of the Authority expire, the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, shall appoint or reappoint a member of the Authority for a term of
five years to succeed the member whose term expires. Vacancies shall be filled
for any unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. Members
of the Authority so appointed shall hold office until their successors have
been appointed and qualified. All members of the Authority shall serve without
compensation, but shall be entitled to be reimbursed for all necessary expenses
incurred. The Authority shall organize by electing statutory officers as may be
necessary. No member or employee of the Authority shall have any interest
directly or indirectly in any contract for property, materials or services to
be required by the Authority. The Authority shall keep an accurate account of
all its activities and of all receipts and disbursements and shall make at
least an annual report of the activities, receipts and disbursements to the
Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 569, passed 5-8-2002)
§ 32.11 AUDITORIUM BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Auditorium Board. The Board shall
consist of seven members who shall be residents of the municipality. The term
of the Board members shall be staggered, with two members appointed for an
initial term of one year, two members appointed for an initial term of two
years, and three members appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, appointments or re-appointments to the Board shall be for a term of
three years.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance
of their duties. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in August of each
year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk
where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Board shall meet at times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any four of
the Board members.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board to take immediate charge of the City
Auditorium. The Board shall be responsible for making reports and performing
other duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No member
of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Auditorium Board while
serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of the
Auditorium Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.11) (Ord. 590, passed 7-6-2010)
UTILITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.25 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Water Department through the
City Council or its authorized agent.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, and maintenance of the Water Department may each year levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value
of all taxable property within the corporate limits that is subject to
taxation.
   (C)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water Fund, and shall
remain in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (D)   The City Council or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the Water Department. The City Council shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department. The City Council shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates
in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 32.30)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds, interest, and taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534
   Public utility extension and improvements, see Neb. RS 19-1305
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
§ 32.26 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the City Council or its authorized agent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the City Council may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property in the municipality. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The City Council or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the
duties of the office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the department subject
to the supervision and review of the City Council. The City Council shall set
the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a
copy of the rates in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 32.31)
Statutory reference:
   Sewage and drainage districts; authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-574
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets, and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   (1)   If the city has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies,
the City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies.
      (2)   The amount of such tax shall be established at the beginning of the
year and shall be included in the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of
such tax, the City Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire
Chief with the approval of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.41 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his
or her duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement, or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council
at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.42 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and upon confirmation
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council and thereafter shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   (1)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such
rules and regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or
required of them by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
      (2)   The members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire
or great public danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police
officers and shall have full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty
of any violation of the city code or the laws of the state.
   (I)   (1)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in
social activities with the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   The Secretary shall, upon request, keep a record of all meetings
and shall make a report to the City Council of all meetings and activities of
the Fire Department.
§ 32.43 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city, and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.44 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.45 POWER OF ARREST.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power,
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
§ 32.46 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported,
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire, and
the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL MUNICIPAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   City Council; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
City Buildings and Public Spaces
   
33.55   City office; office hours
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the
state, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of the state, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act, being
Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
   (C)   In order to have an item of business placed upon the agenda, the Mayor
and each Councilmember shall have the authority to add items to the agenda
prior to the final agenda being released to the public, at least 24 hours prior
to a regular or special meeting. Only the elected official who added the item
to the agenda shall be able to remove said item, and, it shall be removed 24
hours prior to a public meeting. In the event an individual, other than the
Mayor or Councilmember, wishes for an item to be added to the agenda, he or she
shall fill out an agenda request form with the City Clerk at least two business
days prior to a meeting of the City Council. In the event the topic is deemed
to be relevant to the business of the city, either by the Mayor or a
Councilmember, shall it be placed upon the agenda.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977; Ord. 657, passed 8-26-2021)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the Secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote
of at least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the
transaction of any business.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Councilmembers shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
   (E)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at the City Council
chamber in the City Hall commencing at 6:00 p.m. on the first and third Monday
of each month. Special meetings may be held at said chambers whenever called by
the Mayor. A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, except as otherwise
required by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 576, passed 7-5-2005; Ord. 665, passed 2-21-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105 and 17-106
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session, or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal
meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax, or electronic
communication shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements
of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, being Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at
meetings of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body,
except for closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   (1)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public
body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct
of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings.
      (2)   A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   (1)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for
examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
      (2)   Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the
Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 33.10 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1413
§ 33.12 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in
the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion, or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds’ vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Prior Code, § 33.13) (Ord. 409, passed 10-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1413
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all
Councilmembers-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The
Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective
officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to
see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Councilmembers and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Art. XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor/Chairperson and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City
Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
   (J)   (1)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to
have his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and
filed for record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (2)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of
the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within ten
days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown
within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant
and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Council, the office
shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the
duty of the Council to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the
office.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 618, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-104, 11-105, 11-109, 11-110, 11-111, 11-
112, 11-113, 11-114, 11-115, 11-116, 11-117, 11-118, and 17-604
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03, except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such Council, board, or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the emoluments thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
         (b)   An action to have a contract declared void under this section
may be brought by the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident
within the jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one
year after the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Prior Code, § 33.46) (Ord. 489, passed 11-6-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 49-1408, 49-1425, 49-14,103.01, 49-
14,103.02, 49-14,103.03, 49-14,103.05, 49-14,103.06
CITY BUILDINGS AND PUBLIC SPACES
§ 33.55 CITY OFFICE; OFFICE HOURS.
   Office hours at the city office shall be from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. (noon)
and from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except for holidays.
(Ord. 666, passed 3-7-2023)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and
in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in section Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   (1)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the
first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless
otherwise specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the
Election Act in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-
numbered year unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or
general election.
      (2)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act, being
Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., in September of an even-numbered year except for a
special election by a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb.
RS 77-3444 to approve a property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy
limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.. Such ordinance providing for
nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not
less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 605, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-606 and 32-607
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
before March 1 in the calendar year of the general election may have his or her
name placed on the general election ballot for a partisan office by filing
petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, or files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in themunicipality, if candidates are chosen at
large, or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner
as provided for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the municipality or in the ward in which the officer is to be
elected, not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality or in the
ward in which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed
2,000.
(Prior Code, § 34.09) (Ord. 604, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall besigned by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought
to be removed by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the affidavit at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first class mail to the official’s
last known address. If the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense
statement in typewritten form in concise language of 60 words or less for
inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the
filing clerk within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the
affidavit. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after the receipt of the official’s defense statement.
The filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first class mail to the official’s
last known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
30 nor more than 75 days after the notification of the official whose removal
is sought under division (F)(1) above, except that if any other election is to
be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the City Council
shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same day. All
resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the official
whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held, the City
Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least 16 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed
removed from office unless a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed
removed, the removal shall result in a vacancy in the office which shall be
filled as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Ord. 603, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1301, 32-1302, 32-1303, 32-1305, 32-1306,
32-1308, and 32-1309
§ 34.11 EXIT POLLS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.52   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.54   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.56   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
State County and Village Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the city from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 620, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-503
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the ANNUAL REPORT.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city’s fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. For the utilities operated through the Board of Public
Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an
accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than
the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   (a)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible,
the financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or
group of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the
annual audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
         (b)   The annual audit report shall also include the professional
opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial statements, or, if an
opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the accountant is unable to
express such an opinion with an explanation of the reasons why he or she cannot
do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the City Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if:
      (1)   The price is $30,000 or less;
      (2)   The price is $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   The price is $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   The price is $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   (1)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
      (2)   In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or
contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency
or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy
to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or
property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the
emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-
fourths’ vote of the governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the governing body or
Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or Board of
Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 602, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, and 18-1756
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the
Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular
object.
      (2)   No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such
fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds.
      (2)   No claim shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for
the payment thereof may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments.
      (2)   Failure to receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from
any liability to pay the special assessments and any interest or penalties
accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals.
      (2)   The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish
the sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded
indebtedness, such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon
or principal thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage
of the resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for
establishment of the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission, but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32- 101 et
seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, being Neb. RS 77- 2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The City Council shall approve this bond or giving of
security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the
United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, being Neb. RS
72- 1261 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, being Neb. RS 72-1201 et
seq., and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State
Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State
Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current authorized
investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, being Neb. 45-601 et seq., within or without this
state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the
city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   The debt may be assigned to a collection agency for collection
if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   (1)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate.
      (2)   In the case of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of
a court in a criminal or traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the
debt. The collection fee shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is
greater. The collection fee shall be paid by the person who owes the debt
directly to the person or agency providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.    
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   (1)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above.
      (2)   The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit
card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the
payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that
person and shall be in no case refundable.
      (3)   If a payment is made electronically by credit card, charge card,
debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for providing or
retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be authorized
but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 35.26) (Ord. 563, passed 9-5-2000)
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not exceed an
amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The expenditures
shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual fund or purpose
as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Prior Code, § 35.27) (Ord. 621, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01 and 13-509.02
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, annually or biennially, prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-506. A proposed budget statement shall contain
the following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-
2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council;
and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Prior Code, § 35.28) (Ord. 619, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   For purposes of such notice, the four calendar days shall include
the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the total operating
budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per
biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the City
Council’s principal headquarters.
      (3)   At such hearing, the governing body shall make at least three
copies of the proposed budget statement available to the public and shall make
a presentation outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement,
including, but not limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any
member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall
be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a
reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of such
errors. The Council shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
or September 20 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation shall be
limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which
filed a similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending. Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an
amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.30) (Ord. 623, passed 2-18-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation
Bill,” in which the Council may appropriate those sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   (1)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised
budget and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted.
      (2)   The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall be
referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next fiscal
year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the City
Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement. Notice
of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed proprietary
budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary budget
statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during normal
business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to the
hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction. After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement
shall be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall
be kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq., the Municipal Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that
proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary function which is
transferred to the General Fund of the city shall be shown as a source of
revenue in the city budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.53, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq.
The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a
library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting
community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS
71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property
tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require or obligate the
city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability
insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., community redevelopment
authorities established under the Community Development Law, being Neb. RS 18-
2101 et seq., and offstreet parking districts established under the Offstreet
Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as authorized by law which
are authorized by the city and are counted in the municipal levy limit provided
by division (A) above, except that such limitation shall not apply to property
tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1,
1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy
on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans
from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower
cost to the public airport. For offstreet parking districts established under
the Offstreet Parking District Act, being Neb. RS 19-3301 et seq., the tax
shall be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the
total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the
total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by
the levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or
disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this
division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request
and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that
permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in
division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   (a)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy
which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above
and the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall
not have a duration greater than five years.
         (b)   Any resolution or petition calling for a special election shall
be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than 30 days
prior to the date of the election, and the time of publication and providing a
copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later
than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. For
petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May
1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.48) (Ord. 564, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442, 77-3443, and 77-3444
§ 35.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated.
   (B)   In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal purposes, if there
are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a lien on the same
property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such sales and all
sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of law herein
referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be deemed and
treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county taxes
exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
The resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public hearing
called for the purpose is held and after notice is published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the area of the city at least five days prior to the
hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 35.50) (Ord. 565, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601.02
§ 35.56 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE MUNICIPALITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the municipality.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the governing body
of the municipality shall have power to require any individual whose primary
residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the limits of
the municipality and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such limits
to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such fee upon
the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be provided
for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing, repairing,
maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or parts thereof
or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the municipality for
a period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the municipality and does not
own and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the municipality; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a post-secondary
institution within the limits of the municipality and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, being Neb. RS 60-101 et seq.,
is different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the municipality.
   (E)   Until the implementation date designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles under Neb. RS 23-186, the fee shall be paid to the designated county
official of the county in which the city is located when the registration fees
as provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being Neb. RS 60-301 et
seq., are paid. These fees shall be remitted to the County Treasurer for credit
to the Road Fund of the city. On and after the implementation date designated
under Neb. RS 23-186, the fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer for credit
to such Road Fund.
(Prior Code, § 35.51) (Ord. 601, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of county official, see Neb. RS 60-1803
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
CHAPTER 36: WAIVER/FINE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Waiver/fine schedule
§ 36.01 WAIVER/FINE SCHEDULE.
                          Fine
Violation  Code Section 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
                              Fine
Violation      Code Section 1st Offense    2nd Offense    3rd Offense
Water meter      City Code    $50            $100           $150
tampering        51.16
Improper parking City Code    $25            $25            $25
                 72.01
ATV/UTV/golf car City Code    $25            $50            $75
operation        73.36
Parks - injury
to property      City Code    $50            $75            $100
Vandalism/       90.02
littering
Cemetery         City Code
destruction of   91.07        $150           $250           $500
property
Trees -          City Code
overhanging      95.13        $25            $50            $75
branches
Snow removal and City Code
maintenance /    72.12        $25            $50            $75
parking
Snow, debris,
and the like on  City Code    $50            $75            $100
street           96.01
prohibited
Tree -
obstruction;     City Code    $25            $50            $75
pruning and      97.09
removal
Banned animals   City Code    $100           $200           $300
                 96.03
Dog - unlicensed City Code    $25            $50            $100
                 98.15
Dog- wrongful    City Code    $25            $50            $100
licensing        98.17
Dog - running at City Code    $50            $100           $150
large            98.20
Dog - dangerous  City Code    $200           $300           $500
dogs             98.22
Dog - barking    City Code    $25            $50            $75
and offensive    98.26
Dog- removal of  City Code    $50            $100           $150
tags             98.28
Dog- no kennel   City Code
license for 3+   98.34        $25            $50            $100
dogs
Discharge of     City Code    $50            $100           $150
firearms         130.04
Discharge of
slingshots,      City Code    $25            $50            $75
airguns, and BB  130.05
guns
Abandoned        City Code    $50            $100           $200
vehicles         130.08
Curfew           City Code    $25            Not Waiverable Not Waiverable
                 130.12
Fireworks        City Code    $25            $50            $100
                 130.13
Sidewalks/
driveways/       IMPC 302.3   $25            $50            $100
parking spaces
Weeds/grasses    IMPC 302.4   $25            $50            $100
Rodent harborage IMPC 302.5   $50            $100           $200
Maintaining
accessory        IMPC 302.7   $50            $100           $200
structures and
fences
Motor vehicles -
inoperative or   IMPC 302.8   $100           $200           $300
unlicensed
Defacement of    IMPC 302.9   $50            $75            $100
property
Swimming pool    IMPC 303.1   $50            $75            $100
enclosure
Accumulation of
rubbish or       IMPC 308.1   $100           $250           $500
garbage
Disposal of      IMPC 308.2   $25            $50            $100
rubbish
Disposal of      IMPC 308.3   $25            $50            $100
garbage
Unsafe                        1st Offense in 2nd Offense in 3rd Offense in 12
structures       IMPC 108.1.1 12 Months      12 Months      Months
                              $250           $500           Not Waiverable
(Res. passed 4-17-2012; Ord. 663, passed 10-18-2022; Ord. 670, passed 9-18-
2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES, GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   GAS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES, GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills; collection
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Lien
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   Charges for water and sewer service shall be billed on the first day of
every bi-monthly period starting February 1. The City Council shall read, or
cause to be read, water, and electric meters on or around the fifteenth day of
the month prior to the billing. Utility bills shall be mailed on the first day
of each month and shall be due upon receipt and payable by the tenth day of the
month. Bills paid after the tenth day of each month shall have a penalty charge
added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the City Council and on file in
the office of the City Clerk. Bills not paid by the twentieth day of each month
shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein
defined, the Utilities Department may discontinue service pursuant to §
50.02. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
in full of all delinquent charges and upon further payment of a reconnection
fee in the amount set by resolution of the City Council. The municipality may
also take any action authorized by law to effect collection of the delinquent
charges.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to set rates, see Neb. RS 17-542
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility’s employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s, or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division (C) for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas, or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas, or water service without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service
has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas, or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, when that act results in
damages to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 LIEN.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes, or rent assessed by the City Council shall be
a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is used or
supplied; and such taxes, rents, or rates shall be paid and collected and such
lien enforced in such manner as the Council shall by ordinance direct and
provide.
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the City Council shall be a lien upon
the premises or real estate for which the same is used or supplied. Such lien
shall be enforced in such manner as the Council provides by ordinance.
   (C)   If the service charge established by the City Council for the use of
any city sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due, such
sum may be recovered by the city in a civil action or it may be certified to
the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and collected or
returned in the same manner as other city taxes are certified, assessed,
collected, and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   (1)   Unless the City Council otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the City Clerk shall report to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts
due for utilities service together with a description of the premises served.
      (2)   If the Council approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the
report to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-925.01
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Consumer’s application
   
51.03   Service to non-residents
   
51.04   Water contract
   
51.05   Installation procedure
   
51.06   Installation expense
   
51.07   Repairs
   
51.08   Fees and collections
   
51.09   Minimum rates
   
51.10   Single premises
   
51.11   Restricted use
   
51.12   Fire hydrants
   
51.13   Mandatory hook-up
   
51.14   Water service contracts
   
51.15   Inspection
   
51.16   Destruction of property
   
51.17   Control of backflow and cross connections authority, requirements, and
maintenance
   
51.18   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
51.19   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance; testing
   
51.20   Water drought provisions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The SECOND PREMISES may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the City Clerk. The City Clerk may require any applicant to make a
service deposit in an amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review
of the City Council. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service
pipe except upon the written order of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.03 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the City Council; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)
Statutory reference:
   Service beyond city limits authorized, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 51.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid, and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service, and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to the consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which the contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt, the City
Council or its agent may cut off or disconnect the water service from the
building or premises or place of the violation. No further connection for water
service to the building, premises, or place shall again be made, save or except
by order of the City Council or its agent.
(Prior Code, § 51.04)
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the City Council or its agent shall have the duty
to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the City Council or its agent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the City
Council or its agent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for the installation
by the City Council or its agent, provided that the rules, regulations, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe
from the lot line to the place of disbursement. The municipality shall provide,
install, and pay for the stop box. The consumer may be required to pay the
expense of procuring the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay the
expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching, and the necessary labor
to bring water service from the lot line to the place of disbursement.
(Prior Code, § 51.06)
Statutory reference:
   Rates and customer expense authorized, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.07 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the municipality. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense
of the municipality, provided that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
City Clerk shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of the meter
repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting
a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested at the
customer’s request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number of
times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of the test shall be borne by the municipality. The
municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time,
and if the meter is found to be beyond repair the municipality shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at
municipal expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the
customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair
on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding
year, provided that if no basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be
charged the amount as may be reasonably fixed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.07)
Statutory reference:
   Rates and customer expense authorized, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by water consumers for the use of water from Water Department. All fees
shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The
City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
municipality on the account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully
account for and pay to the City Treasurer all revenue collected, taking a
receipt therefore in duplicate, filing one with the City Clerk and keeping the
other on file in the Water Department’s official records.
   (B)   The City Council hereby fixes the following rates to be paid by the
water consumers for the use of water from the city’s municipal water systems.
      (1)   Residents, bi-monthly basis. Rates for residents are as follows:
         (a)   Fixed meter charge (per period): $66.50;
         (b)   Usage: $2.45 per each 1,000 gallons or part thereof; and
         (c)   All rates are net.
      (2)   Non-residents. Furnishing of water service beyond the city limits,
subject to conditions set out in Title V of this code of ordinances of the
city, and at the time of entering into a water service contract, the Mayor and
Council may determine and establish the rates for the service without regard to
the foregoing schedule, providing that the contracts made with non-residents
shall be uniform so far as they affect the users of water under the contract.
      (3)   Temporary users. Persons, firms or corporations desiring to use
water temporarily shall pay rates as the Mayor and Council shall fix and
determine.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 575, passed 5-3-2005; Ord. 595, passed 1-17-2012;
Ord. 645, passed 2-5-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Permissible used of income, see Neb. RS 17-540
   Rates authorized, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.09 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
City Council or its agent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
the consumer shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 51.09)
Statutory reference:
   Rates and customer expense authorized, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from the consumer’s premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall
any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or attachment
without the written permission of the City Council. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Council or its agent may order a reduction in the use of water or
shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water shortage due to fire
or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall not be liable for
any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while
the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a
shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality has no
control.
(Prior Code, § 51.11)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the city’s Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Assessments for fire hydrants, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 51.13 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the City Council, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.14 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the City Council or its agent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the premises. If the consumer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the premises until the
City Council or its agent is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 51.14)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.15 INSPECTION.
   The City Council or its agent shall have free access at any reasonable time
to all parts of each premises and building to or in which water is delivered
for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the
system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or unnecessary waste of
water.
(Prior Code, § 51.15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or carelessly to break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.17 CONTROL OF BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS AUTHORITY, REQUIREMENTS, AND
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Incorporated by reference into this chapter are the provisions dealing
with the control of backflow and cross-connections in the municipal water
system. These provisions provide for the establishment of a regulatory
authority, establishes general technical requirements, establishes maintenance
requirements, and provides for penalties for any violations of the regulations.
   (B)   These regulations shall have the same force and effect as if set out
verbatim herein. Three copies of these regulations are on file with the City
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 432, passed 5-16-1978)
§ 51.18 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplies, or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every year, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the City Council or
its agent.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 536, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 51.19 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the City Water Department may be required by the City
Council or its agent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense, appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179 of the State Department of Health and Human Services
Regulation and Licensure approved by the City Council or its agent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the City Council or its agent
to install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed, including brand and model number.
   (C)   The City Council or its agent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether the installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing.
   (E)   (1)   The customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one
time annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure Grade VI
certified water operator if the device is equipped with a test port.
      (2)   The certification shall be made on a form available at the office
of the City Clerk. The cost of the testing shall be the responsibility of the
customer.
   (F)   Any decision of an agent of the City Council may be appealed to the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 538, passed 4-19-1993)
§ 51.20 WATER DROUGHT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the declaration
of a water supply watch, warning, or emergency and the implementation of
voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the
event a watch, warning, or emergency is declared.
   (B)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
city’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made
or, in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
         WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
            1.   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other
surface drain; or
            2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to
defective plumbing.
         WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its
water rights or any treated water introduced, by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale at any coin-operated
site.
      (2)   Classes of uses of water. The following classes of uses of water
are established:
         (a)   Class 1: Water used for outdoor watering either public or
private, for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses,
playing fields, swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of
motor vehicles, boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure;
         (b)   Class 2: Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while the employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment;
         (c)   Class 3: Domestic usage, other than that which would be included
in either Classes 1 or 2; and
         (d)   Class 4: Water necessary only to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   (C)   Declaration of water watch. Whenever the City Council finds that
conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some other condition
causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to
declare, by resolution, that a water watch exists and that it shall take steps
to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water use. A watch
shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the City
Council to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a
water watch shall be effective upon their publication in the official city
newspaper.
   (D)   Declaration of water warning. Whenever the City Council finds that
drought conditions or some other condition causing a major water supply
shortage are present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water warning exists and that it will
recommend restrictions on nonessential uses during the period of warning. A
warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the
City Council to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending
of the water warning shall be effective upon their publication in the official
city newspaper.
   (E)   Declaration of water emergency. Whenever the City Council finds that
an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply needed for
essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water
supply emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water
use during the period of the emergency. An emergency shall be deemed to
continue until it is declared by resolution of the City Council to have ended.
The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency
shall be effective upon their publication in the official city newspaper.
   (F)   Voluntary conservation measures. Upon the declaration of a water watch
or water warning as provided in divisions (C) and (D) above, the Mayor (or the
City Manager) is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ voluntary
water conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water uses
including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
      (1)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs, or trees (including golf
courses);
      (2)   Washing of automobiles;
      (3)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains, and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
      (4)   Waste of water.
   (G)   Mandatory conservation measures. Upon the declaration of a water
supply emergency as provided in division (E) above, the Mayor (or the City
Manager) is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation
measures, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the emergency;
      (2)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water
use, wholly or in part;
      (3)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
      (4)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
      (5)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
      (6)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
   (H)   Emergency water rates.
      (1)   Upon the declaration of a water supply emergency as provided in
division (E) above, the City Council shall have the power to adopt emergency
water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
      (2)   The emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
         (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
         (c)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use
(excess demand surcharge).
   (I)   Regulations. During the effective period of any water supply emergency
as provided for in division (E) above, the Mayor (or City Manager or Water
Superintendent) is empowered to promulgate regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this section, any water supply emergency
resolution, or emergency water rate ordinance. The regulations shall be subject
to the approval of the City Council at its next regular or special meeting.
   (J)   Violations, disconnections and penalties.
      (1)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Superintendent, or other city
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
section or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any violation of any
water use restrictions imposed pursuant to divisions (G) or (I) above, a
written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property where the
violation occurred and the customer of record any other person known to the
city who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall be provided
with either actual or mailed notice. The notice shall describe the violation
and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or within the
specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If
the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water service to the
customer subject to the following procedures:
         (a)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the City Council or a city
official designated as a hearing officer by the City Council;
         (b)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
         (c)   The City Council or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (2)   (a)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to division (J)(1) above.
         (b)   In the event of subsequent violations, the reconnection fee
shall be $200 for the second reconnection and $300 for any additional
reconnections.
   (K)   Emergency termination. Nothing in this section shall limit the ability
of any properly authorized city official from terminating the supply of water
to any or all customers upon the determination of the city official that
emergency termination of water service is required to protect the health and
safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 557, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
51.20 shall be a municipal offense and may be prosecuted in municipal court.
Any person so charged and found guilty in municipal court of violating the
provisions of §
51.20 shall be guilty of a municipal offense. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be a
mandatory fine of $100. In addition, the customer may be required by the court
to serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county jail which shall
be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a
second or subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine of $200. In addition,
the customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in the city or county
jail which shall be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Application for permit
   
52.02   Sewer contract
   
52.03   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.04   Direct connections
   
52.05   Service contracts
   
52.06   Installation procedure
   
52.07   Installation expense
   
52.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.09   Classification for rental fees
   
52.10   Rate setting
   
52.11   Service deposit
   
52.12   Old house sewers
   
52.13   Unlawful use
   
52.14   Use of public sewers
   
52.15   Manholes
   
52.16   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.17   User charge system
   
52.18   Inspections
   
52.19   Service to non-residents
§ 52.01 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the City Clerk. The Clerk may require any applicant to
make a service deposit in an amount as has been set by the City Council and
placed on file at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon
the order of the City Clerk. The Department shall not supply sewer service to
any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
City Council, provided that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by the consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
Statutory reference:
   Service beyond city limits authorized, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 19-2701
§ 52.02 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through the city’s Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality as and when,
according to law, the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this title shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which contract both parties are bound.
   (B)   If the customer violates any of the provisions of the contract or any
reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt, the
City Council or its agent may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the
building or premises of the violation. No further connection for sewer service
to the building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)
Statutory reference:
   Service beyond city limits authorized, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 19-2701
   Utility contracts authorized, see Neb. RS 17-901 and 17-902
§ 52.03 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the City Council, the property owner, occupant,
or lessee of any premises within 300 feet of any sewer main shall without delay
cause the building to be connected with the sewer system and equipped with
inside sewerage facilities.
   (B)   Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer
system at the time of its construction only if a sewer main is within 300 feet
of the building. In the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee
neglects, fails, or refuses within a period of ten days after notice has been
given to do so by registered mail, or by publication in a newspaper in or of
general circulation in the municipality, to make the connection, the City
Council shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost
thereof against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the
manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Neb. RS 17-575) (Prior Code, § 52.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish sewer system, see Neb. RS 17-149
§ 52.04 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main
sewer line.
   (B)   Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make the
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and set rates, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 52.05 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer moves from the premises where service is furnished,
or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, the customer shall
at once inform the City Council or its agent, who shall cause the sewer service
to be shut off from the premises. If the customer fails to give notice, the
customer shall be charged for that period of time until the official in charge
of sewers is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 52.05)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and set rates, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage.
      (2)   No person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley, or
sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning
lights. After the house sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in the public ways and property
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the City Council
or its agent shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the
property.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
City Council or its agent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are complete and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is
the customer’s responsibility to notify the City Council or its agent at the
time the work is ready for each inspection.
   (C)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for the installation
prescribed by the City Council or its agent, provided that the rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and set rates, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 52.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of an application for sewer service, shall pay
to the City Clerk a tap fee which shall compensate the municipality for the
expense of processing the application and tapping the sewer main. The
municipality shall tap the main. The customer shall then be required to pay the
expense of procuring the materials required and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 52.07)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and set rates, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 52.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or replace
all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including the
customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer shall be
done in the manner and with the materials approved by the City Council or its
agent, provided that the same have been previously approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 52.08)
§ 52.09 CLASSIFICATION FOR RENTAL FEES.
   The City Council may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the city’s Sewer Department; provided, that the classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Prior Code, § 52.09)
Statutory reference:
   Rental charges authorized, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.10 RATE SETTING.
   (A)   Customers of the city’s Sewer Department shall be charged a base rate
and a rate based upon water usage for the use of sewer service.
   (B)   Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file at the office of
the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 534, passed 2-1-1993; Ord. 586, passed 10-7-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and set rates, see Neb. RS 18-503
   Rental charges authorized, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.11 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The City Council, in its discretion, may require a service deposit from any
or all customers of the city’s Sewer Department in a sum set by resolution and
filed in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time. From the fund shall be deducted all delinquent sewer charges. The deposit
shall be collected by the City Clerk who shall immediately turn the same over
to the City Treasurer who shall keep the deposit in a trust fund for customers
of the Sewer Department. The fund shall be put out at interest separate and
apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall be expended solely for
the repair of equipment and property belonging to the city’s Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.11)
Statutory reference:
   Service rates and liens, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 52.12 OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the City Council or
its agent to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new sewers
and drains. If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, the
City Council or its agent shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes
to conform with the provisions of this municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 52.12)
§ 52.13 UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 434, passed 7-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the City Council or its agent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
City Council or its agent to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but
not limited to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged
to the public sewer;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
         (e)   Any waters or wastes having:
            1.   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city shall be subject to the review of the City Council or
its agent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the City Council or its agent,
the owner shall provide, at the owner’s expense, the preliminary treatment as
may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to zero parts per million
by weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the City Council or its agent, and no construction of the facilities shall
be commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the City Council or its agent that the wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the City Council or its agent will give consideration to factors such
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Council or its agent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable, or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the City
Council or its agent for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Council or its agent as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Council or its agent
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 8.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but
not limited to Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and which in the judgment
of the City Council or its agent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the City Council or its agent
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   If the City Council or its agent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Council or
its agent and be subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Council or its agent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients, except that the
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City Council or
its agent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at the owner’s expense.
   (H)   When required by the City Council or its agent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City Council or its agent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH quantities are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 434, passed 7-18-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.15 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The City Council or its agent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
City Council or its agent shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the City Council or its agent or duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
52.14.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council or its agent and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement, for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 434, passed 7-18-1978)
§ 52.17 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Incorporated by reference into this section is the “User Charge
System” of the city. These provisions provide for a user charge system designed
to pay for the operation, maintenance, and expenses associated with the city’s
wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   These regulations shall have the same force and effect as if set out
verbatim herein.
   (C)   Three copies of these regulations are on file with the City Clerk and
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 52.17) (Ord. 443, passed 6-19-1979)
§ 52.18 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council or its agent shall have free access at any reasonable time
to all parts of each premises and buildings which are connected with the sewer
system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or violations of this
chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 52.18)
§ 52.19 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premises is located outside the corporate limits of the
municipality and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the municipal sewer system shall file a written application with
the City Clerk for a permit for the connection and setting forth the name of
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, the use to which the premises
is devoted, and any other information as the City Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 52.19)
Statutory reference:
   Service beyond city limits authorized, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 19-2701
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Garbage, trash, and waste prohibited
   
53.03   Dead animals
   
53.04   Authority
   
53.05   Notice; removal
   
53.06   Nuisance
   
53.07   Lien
   
53.08   Solid waste disposal; collection and disposal
Municipal Compost Facility/Tree Disposal Facility
   
53.20   Established
   
53.21   Operation and funding
   
53.22   State regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetable.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street
cleanings, industrial wastes, and other wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions pertaining to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, see
Neb. RS 13-2003 through 13-2016.01
§ 53.02 GARBAGE, TRASH, AND WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and declared to be a nuisance for any person to keep
in, on, or about any dwelling, building, or premises, or any other place in the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents of the municipality, unless it is kept in
receptacles as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful and
declared to be a nuisance to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or
other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, garbage, refuse,
or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, or refuse to
collect, and all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24
hours after being notified to do so by the City Physician who shall represent
the Board of Health. All persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans
removed at least twice a week during the months of May, June, July, August,
September, and October and once every two weeks during the rest of the year.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 53.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of the
animals, and if the owner of the animal cannot be found within two hours after
discovering the same, then the animal shall be removed by and at the expense of
the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate limits
of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of
groundwater that is used for drinking purposes by the municipality or its
inhabitants. The animals may, however, be buried in the municipal dumping
ground.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 519, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   General health and nuisance regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 17-123
§ 53.04 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads or alleys abutting
the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city may require the
owner, the owner’s agent, or tenant of the lot or land to remove the garbage or
refuse from the lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 519, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing the
notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to other proper
remedies, remove the garbage or refuse or cause it to be removed from the lot
or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 519, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon any
lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and
safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse or cause it to be removed
from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service or
following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
53.05 if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 519, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 LIEN.
   Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse or causes it to be removed
from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against the lot
or land.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 519, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The individual, business, or governmental entity shall provide or contract
for the collection and disposal of its own nonhazardous solid waste from its
own residential, commercial, institutional, and governmental premises within
the municipality’s solid waste jurisdiction. The wastes shall be collected on a
regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only in a licensed landfill
facility approved by the City Council and which meets all state and federal
criteria. The City Council shall approve and is authorized to contract with any
licensed landfill facility for these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 53.08)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory provision of services, Neb. RS 13-2020
MUNICIPAL COMPOST FACILITY/TREE DISPOSAL FACILITY
§ 53.20 ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council shall, from time to time, by resolution or order,
designate, regulate, and control the municipal compost facility/tree disposal
facility, either within or without the corporate limits of the municipality. It
shall be unlawful for any person to use the municipal compost facility/tree
disposal facility unless and until the person has complied with all rules and
regulations and paid any fee which may be prescribed by the City Council or the
Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Systems of solid waste disposal authorized and regulated, see Neb. RS 19-
2101 through 19-2106
§ 53.21 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal compost facility/tree
disposal facility through the City Clerk. The City Council, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal
compost facility/tree disposal facility may each year levy a tax not to exceed
the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all taxable
property within the corporate limits. The revenue from the tax shall be known
as the Compost and Tree Disposal Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
City Treasurer. The City Clerk shall have the direct management and control of
the municipal compost facility/tree disposal facility and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her position. The City Clerk shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the facility subject to the supervision and review of the City
Council. The City Council shall provide by ordinance for the management and
operation of the municipal compost facility/tree disposal facility and shall
set the rates to be charged for services rendered by resolution and file the
same in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 53.21)
§ 53.22 STATE REGULATIONS.
   The municipality shall apply for a license to operate the municipal compost
facility/tree disposal facility from the Department of Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 53.22)
CHAPTER 54: GAS
Section
   
54.01   Rates
§ 54.01 RATES.
   (A)   Rate schedule, monthly charge; heat value, basis of; adjustment;
penalty for delinquency; adjustment for cost of purchased gas and taxes. The
grantee, its successors or assigns, shall file and make effective initially a
schedule of rates for gas service and shall furnish gas at the schedule of
rates hereafter set forth or at other reasonable rates as may be hereafter
established from time to time under the State Municipal Natural Gas Regulation
Act, being Neb. RS 66-1801 et seq.
      (1)   Firm gas service rates.
         (a)   Availability. These rates are available only to domestic and
commercial customers whose maximum requirements for natural gas are less than
100,000 cubic feet per day. The grantee shall not be required to serve any
customer at the following rates whose requirements amount to 100,000 cubic feet
or more per day. The grantee may negotiate price and other contract terms with
customers whose natural gas requirements exceed 50,000 cubic feet per day.
            1.   Residential customers’ amount.
 
Monthly customer charge $8.25
Rate per term           $0.1153170
 
            2.   Commercial customers.
 
Monthly customer charge $13.25
Rate per term           $0.1567016
 
            3.   Rates.
               a.   The foregoing rates apply only when bills are paid on or
before 20 days after the monthly billing date. When not so paid, a 1% per month
late fee will apply on the unpaid amount.
               b.   The above and foregoing rate shall be understood to be
based upon natural gas of the British Thermal Unit (BTU) heating value of 1,000
BTUs per cubic foot of gas. If in any monthly period the average heating value
of gas sold and delivered to the customers shall vary from 1,000 BTUs, then the
volumes of gas billed to the customers during that month shall be multiplied by
the factor of average heating value in BTUs divided by 1,000 to adjust for the
variance.
         (b)   Turn-on and reconnect fee. In addition to the other rates set
forth in this section, grantee may charge a $26 fee to initiate service (turn-
on fee) for each customer account and a $30 fee (reconnect fee) to reconnect
service that has been discontinued or terminated for nonpayment.
      (2)   Natural gas supply cost options. In addition to the firm gas
service rates set forth in division (A)(1) above, a separate charge per Therm
may be made for the monthly cost of natural gas purchased and delivered by
grantee under the pricing option selected by customers of grantee under
properly filed natural gas supply-cost-adjustment rate schedules pursuant to
Neb. RS 66-1854.
         (a)   Purchased gas cost adjustment option.
            1.   The purchased gas cost adjustment shall be computed monthly
pursuant to the natural gas supply-cost-adjustment rate schedule filed by the
grantee (or any predecessor of grantee) pursuant to Neb. RS 19-4609(1).
            2.   Any supply cost, refund, capacity release sharing credits,
including interest thereon, if any, received by the company from its supplier
or interstate transporter in respect of increased rates paid by grantee subject
to refund and applicable to natural gas purchased on a firm supply basis for
resale to customers properly enrolled in the purchase gas cost adjustment
option in Rate Area Three shall be refunded to its gas customers in the form of
credits on the customers’ bills, or in cash, to the extent that the increased
rates paid by the company were passed on to firm gas customers. However,
customers of grantee who elect delivery of gas under the purchased gas cost
adjustment option are not entitled to any refunds, nor shall any additional
charges be imposed from any other natural gas supply cost option.
         (b)   Fixed-price gas cost option.
            1.   The fixed-price gas cost option shall be as set forth on the
“fixed-price gas cost” supply-cost-adjustment rate schedule filed by the
grantee pursuant to Neb. RS 19-4609(1). This natural gas supply cost option is
available to any firm residential customer of grantee subject to the rules,
terms, and conditions of grantee. Customers will pay a fixed-price for each
therm of natural gas delivered by grantee to the customer.
            2.   Customers properly enrolled under the fixed-price gas cost
option will not pay any additional charges for any changes in the cost of
natural gas from suppliers, interstate transporters, other rate schedules of
grantee, or others during the term of the fixed-price gas cost supply cost rate
schedule. In addition, customers of grantee enrolled in the fixed-price gas
cost option are not entitled to any refund for supply cost, interstate
capacity, capacity release sharing credits, other rate schedules of grantee, or
any other refunds or credits related to the cost of purchased for delivery
under the fixed-price gas cost option. The fixed-price gas cost option may be
terminated or modified by grantee, at its option, at the conclusion of the term
of the rate schedule on file with the municipality.
      (3)   Adjustment for taxes. If, after the effective date of this section,
the business of grantee in this Rate Area Three municipality shall be subjected
to any taxes measured by its gross revenues from the operation of a business or
the volume of the business or constituting a fee for carrying on the business,
or in the event that the rate of any tax or the amount of any fee shall be
increased after the effective date of this chapter, the gas distribution
company shall be entitled to increase its charges under the aforesaid rates so
as to offset the imposition or impositions of the increase.
      (4)   General rate adjustment. The above provided for cost of purchased
gas and tax adjustments are apart from and shall not in any manner limit or
abridge either grantee’s right to request or the Mayor and City Council’s
authority to grant general rate adjustments increasing or decreasing the rates.
      (5)   Interruptible gas service rate.
         (a)   Availability. This rate is available only on a contract basis to
commercial or industrial customers whose use of natural gas is subject to
interruption and periods of curtailment for reasons including but not limited
to protecting the service of grantee’s firm gas users.
         (b)   Rate. The rate of interruptible gas service shall be a rate as
may be mutually agreed upon between the customer and that gas service company.
      (6)   Environmental costs.
         (a)   Grantee may defer expenses reasonably incurred after December 1,
1999, as a result of monitoring, testing, clean-up, and the cost of reasonable
efforts made by grantee to recover remediation costs (hereinafter referred to
generally as “manufactured gas plant” costs), if any, at the five manufactured
gas plant sites allocated to Rate Area Three. No carrying costs will be
calculated on any balance of deferred manufactured gas plant costs.
         (b)   At the time of its next general rate case, grantee may request
recovery of any deferred manufactured gas plant costs and, if recovery is
sought, must demonstrate in its rate application or 60 days prior to the
deadline for filing the municipal report that the manufactured gas plant costs
were prudently incurred and reasonable, and that grantee made reasonable
efforts to recover remediation costs from potentially responsible third parties
(which may include, but are not limited to, grantee’s predecessors in
interest).
         (c)   In any future rate application, grantee will reduce any deferred
manufactured gas plant costs by the proportional amount of manufactured gas
plant costs previously recovered (i.e., $62,846 per year from December 1, 1999)
from Rate Area Three as a credit to the deferred expenses allocated to Rate
Area Three. Issues as to whether the deferred remediation costs were prudently
incurred and reasonable; and whether the length of the amortization period for
“past” manufactured gas plant costs requested by grantee for recovering any
deferred remediation expenses is reasonable will be determined in the next rate
case following the incurrence of the deferred manufactured gas plant costs.
         (c)   Seventy-five percent of any funds (or the value of any other
benefits) recovered from third parties by or on behalf of grantee which are
attributable to the remediation of any or all of the five manufactured gas
plant sites allocated to Rate Area Three shall be credited to the deferred
account. Grantee may keep 25% of any funds (or the value of other benefits)
recovered from third parties.
   (B)   General terms and conditions.
      (1)   The general terms and conditions and associated rate schedule
tariff sheets applicable to the natural gas service subject to the Municipal
Natural Gas Regulation Act and provided for under this chapter will be kept on
file with the City Clerk.
      (2)   The general terms and conditions and associated rate schedule
tariff sheets may be changed from time to time by grantee unless contrary
provision is made by an ordinance adopted in the course of a future rate
proceeding.
   (C)   Findings of fact and conclusions of law. The findings of fact and
conclusions of law, which were made a part of the official record at an area
rate hearing, are hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 567, passed 7-30-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Emergency regulations
   
70.03   Police enforcement
   
70.04   Refusal to obey
   
70.05   Traffic officers
   
70.06   Traffic citations; form and record
   
70.07   Traffic citations; disposition and records
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions and the
other definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE, and continues
until a sign or traffic control device indicates that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE
has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the State Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority of
the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the State Rules of the
Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
traffic code, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The County Sheriff is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered
to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic, and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian and animal and vehicular traffic of
every kind in streets, in parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle
shall stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   (A)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation
of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of
vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar year,
when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the
ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such
signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council or the city police may, at any time, detail officers, to be
known as “traffic officers” at street intersections. All traffic officers shall
be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have
been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORD.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear. The City Clerk shall be responsible for the
issuance of the books and shall maintain a record of every book, and each
citation number therein issued to the County Sheriff. The Clerk shall require
and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The City Clerk shall require the
return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been spoiled, or upon
which any entry has been made and not issued to an alleged violator.
   (B)   All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited at
least biennially by a member of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The County Sheriff upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this traffic code shall deposit a copy of the
traffic citation with the City Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the City Attorney, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction, or other official action by the judge of the court, including a
forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with or payment of a
fine to the court by the person to whom the traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the County Sheriff to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation contents; procedure, see Neb. RS 29-424
   Citations authorized, see Neb. RS 29-422
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
traffic infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this chapter for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.03   Crosswalks
   
71.04   Signs; signal
   
71.05   One-way traffic
   
71.06   Engine brake
Speed Limits
   
71.20   General speed limit
   
71.21   Near schools
   
71.22   Speed; public places
School Crossing Zones
   
71.40   Designation
   
71.41   Overtaking and passing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for
trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that
event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as
possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The City Council shall
cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so
designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at any other
places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)
§ 71.04 SIGNS; SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of
stop signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any
street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon.
      (2)   The resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the regulation or
prohibition, the location where the sign, signal, standard or mechanical device
shall be placed, and the hours when the regulation or prohibition shall be
effective.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, see
Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.05 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when the streets or alleys have been so designated by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 573, passed 1-4-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.06 ENGINE BRAKE.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intention of the City Council and it is hereby
ordained, that the provisions of this section shall become and be made part of
this traffic code, and the divisions of this section may be renumbered to
accomplish that intention.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number the plural number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and
not merely directory.
      CITY. The City of Humboldt, Nebraska.
      ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine into a
power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
   (C)   Prohibition. The use of engine brakes is prohibited in the corporate
limits of the city.
   (D)   Violation. Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be
penalized under the provisions of the general penalty section, §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 568, passed 11-6-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the
residential district, and 20 mph within the business district, unless a
different rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance
shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) (Ord. 525, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 537, passed 4-19-1993)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Specific speed limits within the city, see
Ch. 74, Sched. I
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, see Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limit, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State, county, and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.21 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days in which school
is in session to drive a vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of 20 mph past
the premises.
   (B)   On Central Street the speed limit shall apply between the 700 block
and the 1000 block, between the posted school zone speed limit signs. Drivers
shall stop at all stop signs located at or near school premises, and it shall
be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where the stop
signs are located at, or near, the school premises.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) (Ord. 474, passed 9-6-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State, county, and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.22 SPEED; PUBLIC PLACES.
   Vehicles approaching railway stations, churches, public buildings, or
crowded spaces must do so in a cautious manner and always on the proper side of
the street. In no case shall the speed be greater than 20 mph when entering an
area.
(Prior Code, § 71.22)
SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES
§ 71.40 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area
of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the use
of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City Council in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) (Prior Code, § 71.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.41 OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the City Council in which the roadway
has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Neb. RS 60-6,134.01) (Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Generally
   
72.02   Designation
   
72.03   Areas
   
72.04   Obstructing alley
   
72.05   Truck parking and unloading
   
72.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.07   Street intersections
   
72.08   Obstructing traffic
   
72.09   Curb
   
72.10   Display or repair
   
72.11   Time limit
   
72.12   Snow removal and maintenance
   
72.13   Emergency vehicles
Persons With Disabilities
   
72.25   Definitions
   
72.26   Designation of onstreet parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.27   Designation of offstreet parking stalls, spaces, and access aisles
   
72.28   Permit issuance; renewal
   
72.29   Motor vehicle permit issuance; renewal
   
72.30   Permit contents; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.31   Period valid; renewal of temporary permits
   
72.32   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
72.33   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
72.34   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.45   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.46   Bureau of Violations
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in a manner as to
have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway and
so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any other
parked vehicles, except where the City Council designates that vehicles shall
be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb or edge
of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement,
vehicles shall be parked within the stalls. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 552, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 72.03 AREAS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 TRUCK PARKING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Obstructing street, intersection, or entrance. No person shall, except
in case of an accident or emergency, stop any vehicle in any location where
stopping will obstruct any street, intersection, or entrance to an alley or
public or private drive.
   (B)   Intersections. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or when in compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or
traffic control device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle
standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers,
within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15
feet of the intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted
red or another color specified by the City Council to indicate such
prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where the stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the City
Council. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this section.
No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or in any
manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street,
or part thereof, except at places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited
by the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at the direction
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street or
alley in municipality at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of two
inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period, unless the snow has been
removed within that time.
   (B)   The City Council or the County Sheriff may order any street or alley,
or portion thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance.
Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or operator of a
vehicle parked on a street or alley or by posting appropriate signs along the
streets or alleys. The signs shall be posted not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a
vehicle in violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided
in this chapter, and the vehicles may be removed and parked, under the
supervision of the County Sheriff, to a suitable nearby location without
further notice to the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) (Ord. 644, passed 12-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this traffic code, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the
same in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 72.13)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of and conditions on authorized emergency vehicles, see Neb. RS
60-6,114
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 72.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
the federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the
act.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use, or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in that manner for no
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 72.30)
Statutory reference:
   Infractions defined; citations issued, see Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.
§ 72.26 DESIGNATION OF ONSTREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit specified in Neb. RS 60- 331 et seq.; and
         (d)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
the permit.
      (2)   All permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the motor
vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Neb. RS 18-1736) (Prior Code, § 72.31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.27 DESIGNATION OF OFFSTREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES, AND ACCESS AISLES.
   (A)   The city and any person in lawful possession of any offstreet parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the city or person for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
3,113;
      (2)   Other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit specified in Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.; and
      (3)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display such
permit.
   (B)   The designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 72.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.28 PERMIT ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder
to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when
the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.29, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit. (Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 60-331 et seq..
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 72.33)
§ 72.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces or
access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. The parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the City Clerk
by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk
that each motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped
or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of
the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.28, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 72.34)
§ 72.30 PERMIT CONTENTS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to a person or for the motor vehicle and the
permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.27. At the expiration of the suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. The duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk
or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 72.35)
§ 72.31 PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.32 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of the permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this chapter. In
addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which may
be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking
permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to the
court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may be
renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 72.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the city, if it provides
onstreet parking or owns, operates, or provides an offstreet parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any onstreet parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any offstreet parking facility, without properly displaying the proper
permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle shall be
guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in section §
72.34. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty
and subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the city
shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such facility to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 72.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.34 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint charging
the person with a handicapped parking infraction, or the person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-331 et seq. or 60-331 et seq., the
complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of
issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit
provided for in Neb. RS 60-331 et seq., signed by a peace officer, certifying
that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a
handicapped parking permit issued under Neb. RS 60-331 et seq. or 60-331 et
seq. and that the peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
   (E)   A person cited for a handicapped parking violation may waive his or
her right to trial.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
   (F)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury.
(Neb. RS 60-331 et seq.)
(Prior Code, § 72.39)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.45 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims.
      (2)   Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to retain
possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid.
      (3)   The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.46 BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the office of the City Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for
nonmoving traffic violations shall be deposited with the City Clerk, whose duty
it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate
records of all fines paid to him or her. Fines shall be payable at the office
of the Clerk. The fines shall be in the amount of $10 for each violation if
paid within five days from the date of issuance. If any fine is not paid within
the five-day period, the Clerk shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to
which the official police tag was affixed a written notice informing him or her
of the violation and warning the owner that he or she will be held responsible
for the fine and that in the event the violator or owner of the vehicle to
which the official police tag was attached fails to appear at the Bureau of
Violations within five days after the date of issuance of the written notice, a
complaint and warrant of arrest will be issued. The fine for any violation
within five days after the date of the sending of the notice shall be $20. All
fines collected by the City Clerk under this section shall be transferred to
the Treasurer of School District #37 at the end of each month. In addition to
the fine, an administrative fee of $5 shall be collectible by the City Clerk at
the time of payment of the fine which shall be retained by the city for its
costs of collection.
(Prior Code, § 72.61) (Ord. 358, passed 4-2-1974; Ord. 535, passed 2-1-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Violations bureau authorized, see Neb. RS 18-1729
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Operation
Mopeds
   
73.15   Definitions; statutory regulation
   
73.16   Operator’s license required
   
73.17   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.18   Operation
   
73.19   Use of traffic lanes
   
73.20   Equipment
All-Terrain Vehicles, Utility Vehicles, and Golf Car Vehicles
   
73.35   Definitions
   
73.36   Operation
   
73.37   Accident report
   
73.38   Permits
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
(Neb. RS 60-6,318)
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on the sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Neb. RS 60-6,317)
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, see Neb. RS 60-6,315 and 60-6,316
   Reflective materials required, see Neb. RS 60-6,319
MOPEDS
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS; STATUTORY REGULATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human
power, an automatic transmission, and a motor with a cylinder capacity not
exceeding 50 cubic centimeters, which produces no more than two brake
horsepower and is capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed
of no more than 30 mph on level ground.
   (B)   Mopeds, their owners, and their operators shall be subject to Neb. RS
Ch. 60, Art. 4, and amendments thereto, but shall be exempt from the
requirements of Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 1, 3, 5, and 17, and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-637 and 60-6,309
§ 73.16 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys, or public highways
of the municipality unless the person has a valid Class O operator’s license or
a valid school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 73.16) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,310
§ 73.17 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a motor vehicle under this traffic code and Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 6, and
amendments thereto, except for special moped regulations in the rules and
except for those provisions of the sections which by their nature can have no
application.
      (2)   The regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped
shall be operated upon any street, alley, or public highway within the
municipality or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or local
authority for the use of mopeds.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of 25
mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 73.17) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,311 and 60-6,313(7)
§ 73.18 OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other person, nor shall
any other person ride on a moped unless the moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward. No person shall operate a moped while carrying any package,
bundle, or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride
in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of the moped or
the view of the operator.
   (C)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself, herself, or the
moped to any other vehicle on a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.18) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,312(1) through 60-6,312(4), and 60-
6,313(5)
§ 73.19 USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   (1)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any
street or highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less, and no
vehicle shall be operated in a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use
of the lane.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to mopeds or motorcycles operated two
abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate a moped between lanes of
traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. Mopeds shall not be
operated more than two abreast in a single lane.
      (3)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized
speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
   (B)   Mopeds shall not be operated on sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 73.19) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,313(1) through 60-6,313(4) and 60-6,313
(6)
§ 73.20 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for the passenger.
   (B)   No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than 15 inches
above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 73.20) (Ord. 451, passed 12-4-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,312(5) and 60-6,312(6)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY VEHICLES, AND GOLF CAR VEHICLES
§ 73.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on four or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE. 
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Travels on four low pressure tires;
      (2)   Has a maximum level ground speed of less than 20 mph;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (4)   Has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200 pounds;
      (5)   Is designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and three
passengers;
      (6)   Is designed by the original manufacturer for operation on a golf
course for sporting and recreational purposes; and
      (7)   Is not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 650, passed 11-17-2020)
§ 73.36 OPERATION.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility type vehicle or golf car vehicle may
be operated on streets within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility type vehicle or golf car vehicle
may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be
operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph.
      (2)   All-terrain, utility type, or golf car type vehicle as authorized
in this division (B), the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on
and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not
less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The
bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than
30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual
physical control of any all- terrain, utility type or golf car type vehicle
upon the traveled portion of any public roadway within the corporate limits of
the city except as specifically authorized and permitted under the terms of
this article.
   (D)   Any person operating an all-terrain, utility, or golf car type vehicle
as authorized in division (B) above shall have:
      (1)   A valid class O operator’s license;
      (2)   A permit issued by the City Clerk permitting operation within the
corporate limits of the city;
      (3)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain, utility, or golf
car type vehicle on a street or highway and shall fully hold harmless the city
from any liability arising out of the use and operation of the all-terrain,
utility type or golf car type vehicle. The person operating the all-terrain,
utility or golf car type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage
to any peace officer requesting such proof;
      (4)   The operator and passenger of utility type vehicle must wear safety
restraint system;
      (5)   Any person who is under 19 years of age on an all-terrain vehicle
in the city must wear a Department of Transportation approved protective helmet
or a protective helmet, as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,279 and 60-6,280 or as
amended, at any time that the all-terrain vehicle is moving. Said helmet shall
be secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the vehicle is
in motion;
      (6)   All-terrain, utility, or golf car type vehicles may be operated
without complying with subsections (a) and (b) of this section on streets and
highways in parades which have been authorized by the state or any department,
board, commission, or political subdivision of the state;
      (7)   An all-terrain, utility or golf car type vehicle shall not be
operated on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted. Subsections (a) through (e) and
(g) of this section authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain, utility
or golf car type vehicle only on a street or highway other than a controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes;
      (8)   Subject to subsection (f) of this section, the crossing of a street
or highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain, utility, or golf car type
vehicle without complying with subsections (a) and (f) of this section only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing.
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway;
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made; and
         (f)   The operator will allow no more than the amount of passengers
that are specifically designed by the manufacturer for passengers.
      (9)   (a)   In order to obtain a permit to operate an all-terrain,
utility or golf car type vehicle within the corporate limits of the city, an
applicant must make an annual application at the office of the City Clerk and
provide the following information:
            1.   Name and address of the applicant;
            2.   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain, utility or golf car
type vehicle to be operated within the city by the applicant;
            3.   Be 19 years of age or older;
            4.   Valid class O operator’s license issued by the state; and,
            5.   Year, make, model, color, engine size, vehicle identification
number (VIN) of the all-terrain vehicle (ATV), utility type vehicle (UTV), or
golf car type vehicle to be operated within the city by the applicant.
         (b)   The issued permit shall be prominently displayed and plainly
visible from the rear of the operator’s all-terrain, utility or golf car type
vehicle. All letters, numbers, printing, writing and other identification marks
upon such permits shall be kept clear and distinct and free from grease, dust,
or other blurring matter, so that they shall be plainly visible at all times
during daylight and under artificial light in the nighttime.
         (c)   No person shall attach to or display on such ATV/UTV or golf car
vehicle any:
            1.   Permit or registration certificate other than as assigned to
it for the current registration period;
            2.   Fictitious or altered permit or registration certificate;
            3.   Permit or registration certificate that has been cancelled by
the city; or
            4.   Permits lacking current validation decals.
         (d)   In addition, the all-terrain, utility or golf car type vehicle
must meet the following requirements: pass inspection by a personnel designated
by the city to ensure that vehicle has:
            1.   At least one working headlight and taillight;
            2.   A working brake light;
            3.   Working safety restraint system on utility type vehicles;
            4.   UTV’s shall equipped with a manufacturer’s original equipment
roll bar designed and manufactured to prevent injuries in the event of a roll
over;
            5.   A bicycle safety flag in compliance with section 3(b) of this
article;
            6.   A brake system maintained in good operating condition; and
            7.   A muffler system in good working condition properly attached
to the all-terrain, utility, or golf car type vehicle which reduces the noise
of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. The muffler
shall not be audible for a distance of more than 500 feet. No person shall use
a muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipe, or similar device on an all-terrain,
utility, or golf car type vehicle.
(Ord. 650, passed 11-17-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or, in the injury of any
person which requires treatment by a physician, the operator of each vehicle
involved in the accident shall give notice of the accident in the same manner
as provided in Neb. RS 60-969 and 506.01.
(Ord. 650, passed 11-17-2020)
§ 73.38 PERMITS.
   Upon compliance with subsections (a) and (b) herein, and payment of an
application fee of $25, (which fee may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Council), permits to operate a ATV/UTV or golf car
vehicle shall be valid from the date of issuance until midnight on March 31 of
the following year for which the permit is issued.
(Ord. 650, passed 11-17-2020)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
73.35 through
73.38 shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99 and subject to revocation of the permit granted herein, if any, for the
remainder of term that it was granted.
(Ord. 650, passed 11-17-2020)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits have been designated by the City Council:
 
Street                   Location                                   Speed Limit
Nebraska Highway No. 4   From the west corporate limits to the east 50 mph
                         corporate limits
Nebraska Highway No. 105 From Nebraska Highway No. 4 to 9th Street  35 mph
Nebraska Highway No. 105 From 9th Street to 1st Street              30 mph
Nebraska Highway No. 105 1st Street to the south corporate limits   35 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 71.20) (Ord. 525, passed 5-21-1991; Ord. 537, passed 4-19-1993)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
      
II.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No motor vehicles shall be parked on the east side of Grand Avenue
from 10th Street to Highway No. 4.
   (B)   Appropriate signs prohibiting parking as specified in division (A)
above shall be erected.
(Res. 2013-9.8, passed 10-1-2013)
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The northern most parking space on the east side of East Square Street is
hereby designated as handicap parking.
(Ord. 636, passed 3-21-2017)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
95.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   TREES
      
98.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Use of lake
Swimming Pools
   
90.20   Operation and funding
   
90.21   Rules and regulations
   
90.22   Admission charge
   
90.23   Rentals
Library
   
90.35   Funding
   
90.36   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.37   Grounds and building
   
90.38   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.39   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.41   Cost of use
   
90.42   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.43   Annual report
   
90.44   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.45   Donations
   
90.46   Improper book removal
Auditorium
   
90.60   Ownership
   
90.61   Rentals
   
90.62   Rules and regulations
PARKS
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, the Mayor and City Council
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving, and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing,
and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of
such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools, or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise, or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons, or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or ordinances; and the
police power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 USE OF LAKE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations for Lake Park are as follows: Except for
pedal boats, kayaks, and canoes in the West Lake as hereinafter described, it
shall be unlawful for any person to wade, swim, bathe, ice fish, wind sail, ice
skate, operate a motorboat, paddle board, water ski, or use any flotation
device on the lake at Lake Park. However, boats or other equipment may be
placed on the lake for purposes of repair, construction, maintenance, or other
activities conducted by or authorized by the city or its agents or contractors.
   (B)   Signs shall be posted at each of the three entrances to Lake Park,
clearly stating the rules and regulations set forth herein. The signs shall
also state that the city is not responsible for accidents and that all users
enter at their own risk and assume responsibility for knowing and following the
posted rules and regulations.
   (C)   Permitted vessels on the West Lake are limited to pedal boats, kayaks,
and canoes. These vessels must be no longer than 16 feet in length, may not
have motors, and may carry no more than two occupants.
(Ord. 642, passed 10-2-2018; Ord. 655, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 683, passed 5-21-
2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 90.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The
City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance, and improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable value of
all taxable property within the municipality.
   (B)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund, and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall, at all
times, be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The pool manager shall manage
the swimming pool. The pool manager shall have the power and authority to hire
and supervise and the employees as he or she may deem necessary, and shall pass
rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper
for its efficient operation. All actions by the pool manager shall be under the
supervision and control of the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.20)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 90.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The pool manager shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules,
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. He or she may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of the bylaws, rules, and regulations, subject to the review and
supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.21)
§ 90.22 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The charges shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk, and shall
also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for public
inspection. The rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner; provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or
allow discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, color, national
origin, or ancestry in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 90.22)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to charge fees and prescribe regulations, see Neb. RS 17-949
   Discrimination prohibited, see Neb. RS 20-132
§ 90.23 RENTALS.
   The pool manager shall have the authority to rent the municipal swimming
pool to organizations and other persons as it may, in its discretion, see fit,
subject to the review of the City Council. The pool manager shall prescribe
rules and regulations for the rentals, and shall require an appropriate number
of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the rental period. The fees
and other costs shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and posted in
a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 90.23)
LIBRARY
§ 90.35 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the President of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a Public Library Sinking Fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the librarian to the City Treasurer, along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.36 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
   (C)   (1)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate
building for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and
assistants, fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees
at the pleasure of the Board.
      (2)   The governing body of the city shall approve any personnel
administrative or compensation policy or procedure before implementation of
such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   (1)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency.
      (2)   The Library Board may fix and impose, by general rules, penalties
and forfeitures for trespasses upon or injury to the library grounds, rooms,
books, or other property, for failure to return any book, or for violation of
any bylaw, rule, or regulation.
      (3)   The Board shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to
carry out the spirit and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in
establishing and maintaining the library and reading room.
(Prior Code, § 90.41) (Ord. 614, passed 8-6-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205, 51-207, and 51-211
§ 90.37 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Prior Code, 90.42) (Ord. 614, passed 8-6-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-210
§ 90.38 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made, the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published,
or if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.39 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board. The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.41 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.42 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.43 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.44 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the
Library Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a
civil action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted
in the name of the Library Board.
   (B)   Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s fees, collected in
such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to the credit of the
Library Fund. Attorneys’ fees collected pursuant to this section shall be
placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget of the City
Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.45 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.46 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations
made by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the
consent of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
   (B)   Any person removing a book from the library without properly checking
it out shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
AUDITORIUM
§ 90.60 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal auditorium through the
Auditorium Board. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the management, maintenance, and improvements on the municipal auditorium may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law,
on the taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality. The
revenue from the tax shall be known as the Auditorium Fund and shall include
all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-
producing personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of
endowing the municipal auditorium. The Auditorium Fund shall at all times be in
the custody of the City Treasurer. The Auditorium Board shall have the power to
hire and supervise employees as it may deem necessary and shall establish rules
and regulations for the operation of the auditorium as may be proper for its
efficient management. All actions by the Auditorium Board shall be subject to
the review and control of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 90.60) (Ord. 589, passed 7-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Auditoriums and similar facilities, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
   Issuance of bonds, see Neb. RS 17-954
§ 90.61 RENTALS.
   The Auditorium Board may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the auditorium, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
auditorium. The Auditorium Board shall prescribe rules and regulations for the
rentals subject to the review of the City Council. Rental rates may be
structured for classes of persons and organizations in a reasonable manner;
provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, or
ancestry in the classification of persons and organizations for rental
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.61) (Ord. 589, passed 7-6-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination prohibited, see Neb. RS 20-132
   Operation of facility, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 90.62 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Auditorium Board shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of the municipal auditorium and the
safety of those using the auditorium facilities. It may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to the
supervision and review of the City Council. All damage suffered by the
auditorium during any rental shall be assessed against the person or
organization responsible for the rental thereof or shall be deducted from the
damage deposit which the Auditorium Board may, in its discretion, have required
prior to the rental. The Auditorium Board may require during any rental
deputized persons to ensure that the rules and regulations and the municipal
code are not violated. The wages of these persons shall be set by the
Auditorium Board, and shall be paid prior to the beginning of the rental
period. All rental fees, rules, and regulations shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 90.62) (Ord. 589, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-953
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Operation and funding
   
91.02   Sexton
   
91.03   Conveyance of lots
   
91.04   Lot transfers
   
91.05   Burial permit
   
91.06   Monuments
   
91.07   Destruction of property
§ 91.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery may, each
year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality that is subject
to taxation for general purposes.
   (B)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Cemetery Fund and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds,
or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (C)   The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
employees as it may deem necessary and to pass rules and regulations for the
operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation. All
actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
Statutory reference:
   Cemetery Board; taxing authority, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 91.02 SEXTON.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall
have the authority to hire an independent contractor, who shall serve as
sexton.
   (B)   The sexton shall perform duties and make reports as the Cemetery Board
shall direct.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the sexton, upon receiving a burial permit, to
locate and direct the party named in the permit to the lot mentioned therein,
and to dig and excavate, or cause the same to be dug or excavated, in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to contract, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 91.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Mayor and City Council may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by
the Mayor, and countersigned by the City Clerk under the municipal seal,
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The certificate shall
give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs, and assigns.
The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 17-941) (Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the City Clerk, who shall issue a new certificate
upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.05 BURIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be
required to file a completed death certificate with the Bureau of Vital
Statistics before any body may be buried in the municipal cemetery.
      (2)   If it is impossible to complete the certificate of death within the
legal period of time prescribed by state law, the funeral director shall notify
the Bureau of the reason for the delay and file the certificate as soon as
possible. The burial permit so issued by the Bureau shall then be filed with
the City Clerk. It shall be unlawful for the sexton or other person to allow
the interment of a body without first receiving the permit. The burial permit
shall then be countersigned and dated by the sexton.
   (B)   The interment of any body shall be performed under the direct
supervision of a licensed funeral director. The applicant shall also file with
the burial permit an application containing the name, age, sex, race, and cause
of death of the deceased person for the records of the Cemetery Board. Upon
completion of the requirements herein, the City Clerk shall then issue a
municipal burial permit, which shall entitle the applicant to bury a deceased
person in the municipal cemetery.
   (C)   In the event that the removal of the body of any deceased person is
requested, the City Clerk shall issue no permit until the applicant shall have
first complied with the laws of the state with respect to the disinterment.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Death certificate general requirements, see Neb. RS 71-605
§ 91.06 MONUMENTS.
   Persons desiring to erect monuments, tombstones, or other structures shall
first procure a permit from the City Clerk. The Cemetery Board shall review all
applications and shall give written approval for any permit prior to the
issuance by the City Clerk of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.07 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure, or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence,
railing, or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or
who shall willfully destroy, cut, break, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant
shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Preservation of property
   
92.02   Disorderly spectator
   
92.03   Equipment
   
92.04   Interference
   
92.05   Obstruction
   
92.06   Assistance
   
92.07   Driving over hose
   
92.08   Traffic
   
92.09   False alarm
   
92.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
92.25   Life Safety Code
   
92.26   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.27   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.28   Lawful entry
   
92.29   Violation notice
   
92.30   Fire limits defined
   
92.31   Fire limits building permit
   
92.32   Fire limits materials
   
92.33   Permitted repairs
   
92.34   Fires prohibited
   
92.35   Regulated fires
   
92.36   Open burning ban; waiver
Poisonous and Flammable Gases; Explosives
   
92.50   Petroleum gas
   
92.51   Poisonous and flammable gases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the city’s Fire Chief or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during that
time to arrest or command any person to assist them in the performance of their
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the city’s Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 92.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
city’s Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duty.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant or have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk,
cost, and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking prohibited, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 92.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 92.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm has been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm.
   (B)   No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach, or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 92.09 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause, to raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 92.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   False fire alarms prohibited in rural fire districts, see Neb. RS 35-520
   False reporting prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 92.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.25 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended
by the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code,
2011 edition, and all subsequent amendments.
   (B)   This code shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim
herein. One copy of the Life Safety Code is on file with the City Clerk, and
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 92.30)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Powers and duties of State Fire Marshal, see Neb. RS 81-502
   Zoning and building regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-
933
§ 92.26 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at large herein together
with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   One copy of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the City
Clerk, and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 92.31)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Powers and duties of State Fire Marshal, see Neb. RS 81-502
   Zoning and building regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-
933
§ 92.27 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 92.32)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.28 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 92.33)
Statutory reference:
   Inspections under Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act and the Petroleum Products
and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 92.29 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 92.34)
§ 92.30 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits:
      All lots and parts of lots facing and adjoining the streets on each side
of the public square in the municipality, and all lots or parts of lots, or
pieces or parcels of lands adjoining and facing Third Street from Long Branch
Street east to Nims Street, and all lots or parts of lots adjoining and facing
Fourth Street from the northeast corner of the Public Square to Airport Road,
and all lots or parts of lots adjoining and facing Central Street from the
Public Square to one block north of the Public Square, and from the Public
Square to one block south of the Public Square.
(Prior Code, § 92.35)
§ 92.31 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the City Council. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. The application
shall be furnished by the City Clerk and shall require information as the City
Council deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 92.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.32 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless the structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the structure will
be reasonably fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 92.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.33 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any
building in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building,
unless the person shall first submit an application to the City Clerk to make
repairs, alterations, or to add to any building, and shall state on the
application that the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the
Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit.
   (B)   In the event that the repairs, alteration, or addition is to involve
more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for a new
building permit, which shall state that the building, when completed, shall be
fireproof and made of non-combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 92.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.34 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 92.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Public safety regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.35 REGULATED FIRES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED FIREPROOF TRASH BURNER. Any barrel or metal incinerator can with
a fireproof metal cover or screen.
      APPROVED INCINERATOR. Any refuse-burning equipment, apparatus, or
structure consisting of one or more refractory-lined combustion furnaces
employing adequate design parameters for maximum combustion of the material to
be burned.
      GARBAGE. All solid and semi-solid, putrescible and non-putrescible animal
and vegetable wastes.
      OPEN BURNING. Burning under conditions that the products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air and are not conducted thereto through
a stack, chimney, duct, or pipe.
   (B)   Open burning prohibited; exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to build or set out fires or to open burn
within the city limits of the municipality, provided that there shall be
limited open burning privileges allowed when the open burning shall take place
in an approved fireproof trash burner or approved incinerator, between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any Tuesday or Saturday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause
to be burned any garbage, animal matter, vegetable matter, straw, hay, leaves,
brush, branches, limbs, trees, petroleum products, or petroleum distillates.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to burn within ten feet of any building,
utility poles, or utility lines.
   (C)   Use of barbecue grills.
      (1)   Division (B) above shall not apply to outdoor fireplaces or
barbecue grills used solely for entertainment or the noncommercial preparation
of food.
      (2)   The outdoor fireplaces or grills may be used at other than the
hours provided in division (B) above but shall not be used for the burning of
refuse or other combustible waste.
   (D)   Exceptions by permit. The City Council may permit an exception to
divisions (B) and (C) above upon written request to the City Clerk by the party
seeking the exception and upon approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. 427, passed 11-15-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
   Public safety regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Statewide ban; exemptions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.36 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A)
above for an area under the municipal Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing
an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open
burning.
      (2)   The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct
open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   (1)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the municipal
Fire Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief.
      (2)   Anyone intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning
ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn
prior to starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion
in the General Funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of that
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 92.41) (Ord. 598, passed 7-17-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES; EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.50 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied petroleum
gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable docks or
platforms, and no container shall, at any time, be stored within a building of
any kind.
(Prior Code, § 92.60) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.51 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for
the storage of gases, must first get permission from the City Council. The City
Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage, and the amount
of gas stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall prescribe
rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they may deem necessary.
Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of storage
facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the effective
date of the ordinance enacting this section; provided, that any present use
that is discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a
permit. The provisions of this section shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 92.61) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority throughout zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
   Authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
CHAPTER 93: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Prohibition
   
93.03   Exceptions
   
93.04   City property
   
93.05   Impoundment authorized
   
93.06   Redemption
   
93.07   Sale authorized
   
93.08   Abandoned motor vehicle
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle on which the engine, wheels, or other
parts have been removed, altered, damaged or otherwise so treated or allowed to
deteriorate so that the motor vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own power. A motor vehicle which does not have an unexpired license plate or
plates affixed thereto shall be presumed to be a JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE, provided
that the presumption may be rebutted.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, and wagon.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A street or highway, which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purpose of
vehicular travel, or any other city-owned property or facility.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985)
§ 93.02 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   The practice of permitting junked motor vehicles to be parked, to
remain, to be stored or accumulated in the city limits is a potential and
actual nuisance in that they become unsightly and unhealthful by providing
harborage for disease-carrying insects and vermin and degrading the aesthetic
beauty of the city.
   (B)   In order to ensure the health and sanitation of the city and to
prevent and eliminate nuisance, no person shall park, store, leave, or permit
the parking, storing, or leaving of any junked motor vehicle upon any private
property within the city for a period of time in excess of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any person from
storing junked motor vehicles upon private property when enclosed within a
building.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to any motor
vehicle held in connection with a lawful business enterprise, operating in an
appropriate commercial or industrial zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985; Ord. 584, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 93.04 CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall leave any junked motor vehicle on public property within the
corporate limits in excess of 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left on any public property within or without the corporate limits
which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter or lost, stolen, or
unclaimed.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of
in accordance with the provisions of this code or ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985)
§ 93.06 REDEMPTION.
   Any vehicle impounded under the provisions of this chapter may be redeemed
by the owner thereof by payment of all costs incurred by the city by reason of
the impoundment, provided that the payment of costs shall not bar the
imposition of any fine or other penalty which may be imposed against the owner
for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985)
§ 93.07 SALE AUTHORIZED.
   In the event any vehicle is impounded under the provisions of this chapter
and the same is not redeemed by the owner thereof, the County Sheriff may sell
the vehicle. After payment of the costs incurred by the city by reason of the
impoundment, the balance of the proceeds resulting from the sale shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985)
§ 93.08 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle on public property within or without the
corporate limits, and no person shall leave any motor vehicle on public
property within or without the corporate limits for the time and under
circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 498, passed 4-16-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Health regulations
   
94.02   Enforcement official
Nuisances
   
94.15   Definition
   
94.16   Abatement procedure
   
94.17   Jurisdiction
   
94.18   Dead or diseased trees
Rodents and Insects
   
94.30   Extermination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 94.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as
the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
NUISANCES
§ 94.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality. The depositing of garbage, pet waste, meat
scraps, or other materials that may attract animals or vermin which may provide
an obnoxious odor shall be prohibited;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a
place and manner approved by the governing body. Grass, sod, earth, garden
debris, leaves, brush and tree clippings that are one-half inch in diameter or
less, and other materials accumulated as the result of the maintenance of
lawns, shrubbery, and vines; fruits, vegetables, eggshells, coffee grounds,
houseplant materials, and cut flowers are acceptable only when placed in a
properly maintained compost pile. Said pile shall not be less than 25 feet from
a neighboring dwelling unit and not less than five feet from a rear or side lot
line, and shall not exceed 100 square feet of ground space. In no case may a
compost pile be in the front yard of a dwelling. It shall be contained within a
structure to prevent the materials within to be windblown, and shall not
contain any animal matter or waste;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or
rats may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so
unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following
defects are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures
and a public nuisance;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (12)   Maintenance of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation of 12
inches or more in height, or eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses,
or worthless vegetation on any lot or piece of ground located within the
corporate limits during any calendar year if, within the same calendar year,
the city has previously acted to remove weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation
exceeding 12 inches in height on the same lot or piece of ground and had to
seek recovery of the costs and expenses of such work from the owner. Weeds
shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), puncture
vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada thistle
(Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian knapweed
(Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk thistle,
quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), horse
nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium lanceoltaum), buckthorn
(Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa), and ragweed
(Ambrosiaceae);
      (13)   Dead, damaged, and diseased trees within the rights-of-way of
streets, alleys, or on private property;
      (14)   Permitting, maintaining, or keeping conditions on a parcel of
ground liable to produce disease, or which is conducive to the breeding and
existence of rats, mice, flies, mosquitoes, bacteria, or any other rodents,
wild animals, or insects; and
      (15)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. 631, passed - -; Ord. 613, passed 3-19-2013; Ord.
648, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 17-555, and 18-1720
§ 94.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee of
real estate in the municipality or within the zoning jurisdiction to keep such
real estate free of public nuisances. In the event a report of a condition that
has been declared a public nuisance by ordinance, law enforcement, or Board of
Health report declaring a public nuisance is filed with the City Clerk, the
City Clerk shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon the owner or owner’s
duly authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any, of the real estate so
affected. Such notice shall describe the condition declared to be a public
nuisance, state that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and
that the condition must be abated and removed within no less than five days
after receipt of such notice. Such notice shall state that within five days
after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground may request a hearing with the municipality to appeal the decision to
abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by the City
Clerk by first-class mail (envelope conspicuously marked for its importance),
personal service or certified mail. In all nuisance abatement actions, if
notice by first-class mail (envelope conspicuously marked for its importance),
personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance
is to be abated or removed.
      (2)   Said notice may be in the following terms:
         To (owner and/or occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as (legal description/address):
         You are hereby notified that a report has been filed with the City
Clerk’s office indicating condition(s) exist upon the real estate you own and/
or occupy which have been declared to be (a) public nuisance(s) by ordinance.
The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the conditions
found to be public nuisance(s) as described in the report or indicate that the
report is attached).
         You must remove and abate said condition(s) within five days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Within five days after receipt of this notice, you may request a hearing with
the municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove the nuisance by
filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. In the event the
municipality has the work done, the municipality may levy and assess the costs
and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited or
recover the same in a civil action as provided by law.
   (C)   (1)   A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by a hearing officer (an elected or
appointed officer) appointed by the governing body. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the municipality may have such work done,
unless an appeal is taken to the district court. Within five days after receipt
of such notice (or posting/publication if necessary), if the owner or occupant
of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the municipality
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of any such work
shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   Upon completion of the work by the municipality, a statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the owner. If unpaid for two months
after such work is done and request for payment is sent by first-class mail
(envelope conspicuously marked for its importance), the municipality may:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; and/or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. 631, passed - -; Ord. 613, passed 3-19-2013; Ord.
648, passed 10-22-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563 and 18-1720
§ 94.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor, law enforcement, and/or the Health Board shall enforce this
municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction to enforce said
nuisances shall extend to, and the territorial application of this chapter
shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within
the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction thereof, and all territory within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. 631, passed - -; Ord. 613, passed 3-19-2013; Ord.
648, passed 10-22-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-1720
§ 94.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead, damaged, or diseased trees within the right-of-way
of streets within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead, damaged, or diseased trees on private property
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, law
enforcement shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect
the trees thereon.
   (C)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right
to a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given as
provided in §
94.16, and the process set forth therein shall apply.
      (2)   Within five days after the receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality may
have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 94.23) (Ord. 631, passed - -; Ord. 613, passed 3-19-2013; Ord.
648, passed 10-22-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720, and 28-1321
RODENTS AND INSECTS
§ 94.30 EXTERMINATION.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any dwelling or
building to be responsible for the active and continued extermination of any
insects, rodents, or other pests therein, or on the premises. In the event that
the owner, lessee, or occupant of any dwelling or building neglects, fails, or
otherwise refuses to control and actively exterminate the insects, rodents, and
other pests in and about the premises, the Board of Health shall issue notice
for him or her to do so. If the owner, lessee, or occupant has not made a good
faith effort to exterminate the pests within five days, the premises shall be
deemed to be a nuisance and a health hazard.
(Prior Code, § 94.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other improvements
   
95.03   Maintenance and control
   
95.04   Regulation of obstructions
   
95.05   Regulation of snow, ice, and other encroachments
   
95.06   Permitted use of public street space
   
95.07   Poles, wires, and pipe lines
   
95.08   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
95.09   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
95.10   Guttering and eave spouts
   
95.11   Prohibited obstructions
   
95.12   Trees in sidewalk space
   
95.13   Overhanging branches
   
95.14   Signs and canopies
   
95.15   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
95.16   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
95.30   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
95.31   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
95.32   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
95.33   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
95.34   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
95.35   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
95.36   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to non-
resident property owners
CITY PROPERTY
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The city official with general charge, direction, and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 95.02 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city corporate
area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct pedestrian
walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems, fountains,
decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent facilities; and
construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The City Council may, by ordinance, create
improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or
more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may
include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this section in
a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which are to be
funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially benefitted
shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise
provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments, and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401, and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 95.03 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
city, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from
nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 95.04 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city, and require and regulate the planting and protection
of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining, and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 95.05 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE, AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys, and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
city through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes, and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 95.06 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking, or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with the building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application
to and receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets.
   (B)   No permit shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
or sidewalk is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired.
A suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public
space included in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted
in the manner required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 POLES, WIRES, AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under
the streets, alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location
of such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles,
wires, conduits, mains, lines, or other appurtenances of any public utility;
any adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 95.08 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways, or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks,
pavements, or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of
this prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk,
pavement, or street satisfies the Overseer of Streets that the opening is
properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and
furnishes the city with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the
benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use
of the stairway, cellarway, basement way, or entrance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner or occupant engaged in construction or demolition of any building
or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect all
excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by day
and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of the owner
or occupant to erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a violation
of this section, and the city may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.10 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.11 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys,
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to, at all times, keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making, or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
94.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.12 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
94.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.13 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
94.16.
(Prior Code, § 95.013) (Ord. 479, passed 2-7-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.14 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster,
or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, or alley or on other public property
without having first obtained a permit therefor.
      (2)   Permits for signs, signboards, posters, and canopies shall be
issued by the City Clerk, subject to the approval of the Overseer of Streets,
upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters, and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster, or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is located as
provided in §
94.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.15 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the duty of
the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb, or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Overseer of
Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the city. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the city until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Overseer of Streets or of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the Council in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or
damage any pavement, gutter, or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures, and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 95.30 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 95.31 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 95.32 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building, or community house
for housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, and including construction of buildings
to be leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political or
governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such
buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
§
92.29.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as one question at a general
city or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council.
      (4)   The number of voters voting at the last regular city election prior
to the presenting of the petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the
city for the purpose of determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (5)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (6)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, or
the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental subdivision
of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased by the state
or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental subdivision of the
state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when such sum does not
exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 95.33 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 95.34 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
      (2)   Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal
to the right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners.
      (2)   The right of access granted to the public for recreational use
shall meet or exceed such right held by a private landowner adjacent to the
real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 95.35 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (2)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (3)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (4)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above, or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it appoints a City Engineer or employs a full-time
person licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb.
RS 81-3401 et seq., who is in responsible charge of architectural or
engineering work.
(Prior Code, § 95.035) (Ord. 561, passed 8-1-2000; Ord. 599, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3445, 81-3449, 81-3423, and 81-3453
§ 95.36 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO NON-
RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the city or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last known address of
all non-resident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail with return receipt requested a copy of the published notice in regard to
the formation of any special taxing district within the city to the last known
address as shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail with return receipt
requested a copy of such notice to be published to the last known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the City Clerk any other person upon whom the duty is
imposed by law to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in this section
shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved while permitting
all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence
and mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries
of the county, and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of
the city, special assessment district, or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
96.01   Requirement to keep clean
   
96.02   Use of space beneath
   
96.03   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
96.04   Construction and repair at city direction
Streets and Alleys
   
96.15   Dedication to public use
   
96.16   Grading, paving, and other improvements
   
96.17   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
96.18   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
96.19   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
96.20   Crossings
   
96.21   Names and numbers
   
96.22   Driveway approaches
   
96.23   Excavation
   
96.24   Driving stakes
   
96.25   Mixing concrete
   
96.26   Harmful liquids
   
96.27   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
SIDEWALKS
§ 96.01 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.02 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained from the
City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans
and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon
the condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains, and keeps in
repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all
damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason
of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition
precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the city sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the City Council
may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the
benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of such use.
The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may
designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed,
any sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk
without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and
file such application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed.
      (2)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to
the City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated by the city.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established
grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed; and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 96.15 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley which shall hereafter be dedicated to public use, by the
proprietor of ground in the city, shall be deemed a public street or alley, or
be under the use or control of the City Council, unless the dedication shall be
accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 96.16 GRADING, PAVING, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue, or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts, and sewers. No
street, avenue, or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 96.17 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter, and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the city for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Mayor and City Council may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or
issue paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004)
§ 96.18 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the city and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 96.19 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address, or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or, if
a special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time, and
place of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three, five, or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the Commission shall use the following
rule.
      (1)   An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation
the difference between the value of the property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way.
      (2)   If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is
entitled to no compensation.
§ 96.20 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Overseer of Streets, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 96.21 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may, at any time by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets, upon the erection
of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give
notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
§ 96.22 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.23 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.24 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.25 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.26 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.27 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Tree species to be planted
   
97.03   Spacing
   
97.04   Distance from curbs and sidewalks
   
97.05   Distance from street intersections, driveways, and alleys
   
97.06   Distance from utility lines
   
97.07   Care and removal
   
97.08   Tree topping
   
97.09   Obstruction; pruning and removal
   
97.10   Dead or diseased trees; pruning and removal
   
97.11   Work ordered or done by the city
   
97.12   Abuse or mutilation
   
97.13   Protection of trees
   
97.14   Stumps
   
97.15   Interference with city tree board
   
97.16   Review by City Council
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature attain heights greater than 45 feet
at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from 25
to 45 feet at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access.
   SMALL TREES. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights
greater than 25 feet at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.090) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979)
§ 97.02 TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following species of trees, listed by common name, constitutes the
official street tree species for the city. No species other than those included
in this list may be planted as street trees without permission of the City Tree
Board.
 
Small Trees           Medium Trees                    Large Trees
                                                      Ash, Green
Corktree, Amur                                        Ash, White
Crabapples, Flowering                                 Coffeetree, Kentucky
Goldenraintree                                        Hackberry
Hawthorns             Ginkgo                          Honey locust
Lilac, Japanese Tree  Linden, Littleleaf              Linden, American
Maple, Amur           Linden, Redmond                 Maple, Norway
Pear, Bradford        Mountain ash, European Sweetgum Maple, Sugar
Plum, Purpleleaf                                      Oak, Bur
Redbud, Eastern                                       Oak, Northern Red
                                                     Pagodatree, Japanese
                                                      Sycamore, American
 
   (B)   Any request to plant street trees other than those listed above shall
be by written request to the City Tree Board. The request shall be accompanied
by the written recommendation of the county agent’s office. The written
permission of the City Tree Board as to variance shall not be effective until a
majority of the City Council shall have approved the variance, and the City
Clerk shall have endorsed upon the written permission of the City Tree Board
the approval of the variance by the City Council. The City Tree Board shall
review and approve all tree planting plans for park trees, as defined in §
97.01.
(Prior Code, § 95.091) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees and park trees will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in §§
97.01 and
97.02, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following, except
in special plantings approved by the City Tree Board:
   (A)   Small trees: 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 95.092) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04 DISTANCE FROM CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in §§
97.01 and
97.02, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet. Planting of trees between the street and sidewalk on Nemaha Street,
within the city, shall be forbidden except by the express written permission of
the State Department of Roads.
   (B)   Street trees will be centered between the curb and sidewalk or aligned
with existing street trees, except in special situations approved by the City
Tree Board. In areas with no curbs or sidewalks or less than four feet between
the curb and sidewalk, no street trees shall be planted without written
permission from the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.093) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET INTERSECTIONS, DRIVEWAYS, AND ALLEYS.
   No street tree or park tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street
intersection, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or
curblines or within 15 feet of any driveway or alley.
(Prior Code, § 95.094) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.06 DISTANCE FROM UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   No street trees or park trees other than those species listed as small
trees in §
97.02 or species specifically approved by the City Tree Board may be planted
under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or
within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line, or other utility line, wire, or main.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 95.095) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07 CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and
remove street trees or park trees within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of public
grounds.
   (B)   The City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any
street tree or park tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
   (C)   No person or property owner shall remove any live street tree or park
tree for any reason without written permission of the City Tree Board. Utility
companies may remove trees or parts thereof which are injurious to their
utility lines at their expense upon obtaining permission for the removal or
trimming from the City Tree Board. This section does not prohibit the planting
of street trees by abutting property owners, provided that the selection and
location of the trees is in accordance with §§
97.02 through
97.06.
(Prior Code, § 95.096) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or municipal
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at
the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.097) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.09 OBSTRUCTION; PRUNING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees and shrubs within the municipality shall be pruned or
removed when the trees or shrubs obstruct the light from any street lamp,
obstruct the visibility of any traffic control device or sign, obstruct the
passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, or obstruct the view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof
shall be 14 feet over all streets and eight feet over sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Tree Board shall have the power and authority to prune or
remove, or order to be pruned or removed any trees or shrubs on private
property. The City Tree Board shall notify in writing the owners of the trees
or shrubs. Pruning or removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of notification. In the event of failure of
owners to comply with the notice, the municipality shall have the authority to
prune or remove the trees or shrubs and assess the cost of pruning or removal
on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 95.098) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; PRUNING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees and shrubs within the municipality shall be pruned or
removed when the trees or shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property or
harbor insects or disease which constitute a threat to other trees or shrubs
within the city.
   (B)   The City Tree Board shall have the power and authority to prune or
remove, or order to prune or remove, any trees or shrubs on private property.
The City Tree Board shall notify in writing the owners of the trees or shrubs.
Pruning or removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60
days after the date of notification. In the event of failure of owners to
comply with the notice, the municipality shall have the authority to prune or
remove the trees or shrubs and charge the cost of the pruning or removal on the
owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 95.099) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.11 WORK ORDERED OR DONE BY THE CITY.
   Written permission shall not be required for any tree, shrub, or hedge
planting, pruning, spraying, or removing ordered or done by the city; however,
all work shall be done in conformance with the requirements of §§
97.02 through
97.10.
(Prior Code, § 95.100) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.12 ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   Unless specifically authorized by the City Tree Board, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any street tree or park
tree, attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters, or other contrivance
to the trees, allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to
the trees to come in contact with them, or set fire or permit any fire to burn
when the fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of the trees. These
restrictions do not apply to proper planting, staking, and guying practices.
(Prior Code, § 95.101) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.13 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   All street trees or park trees near any excavation or construction of any
building, structure or street work, shall be guarded with a substantial fence,
frame, or box not less than four feet high and eight feet square, and all
construction materials, soil, or other debris shall be kept outside the
barrier. No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within ten feet of any street or park tree without first obtaining
written permission from the City Tree Board. No person shall deposit, place,
store, or maintain upon any public property of the municipality, any stone,
brick, sand, soil, concrete, or other material which may impede the free
passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots of any street tree or park
tree, except by written permission of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.102) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.14 STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed so that the top of the
stump shall not project six inches above the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 95.103) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.104) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.16 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of
the City Tree Board to the City Council, which may hear the matter and make
final decision.
(Prior Code, § 95.105) (Ord. 442, passed 2-6-1979)
CHAPTER 98: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Running at large
   
98.02   Impoundment
   
98.03   Certain animals prohibited
   
98.04   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
Dogs
   
98.15   License required; tags
   
98.16   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs, and service dogs; exempt from license tax
   
98.17   Wrongful licensing
   
98.18   Owner defined
   
98.19   Rabies threat; proclamation
   
98.20   Running at large
   
98.21   Capture impossible
   
98.22   Dangerous dogs
   
98.23   Additional regulations
   
98.24   Interference with police
   
98.25   Killing and poisoning
   
98.26   Barking and offensive
   
98.27   Liability of owner
   
98.28   Removal of tags
   
98.29   Impounding
   
98.30   Rabies suspected; inspection; impoundment
   
98.31   Abandonment
   
98.32   Multiple violations; declared nuisance; abatement
   
98.33   Enforcement of provisions
   
98.34   Kennels; definitions, licensing, requirements
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose, or other animal except a cat to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the City Council.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance, and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the city that is prohibited by the City
Council.
Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 98.02 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
98.29 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment, and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the City
Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of impoundment.
Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed to the owner
listed on the license application by regular U.S. mail to the address listed on
the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if in the judgment of the officer a suitable home
can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person who
can provide such home, and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees and
meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The city shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the
fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 98.03 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition.
      (1)   Generally. It is hereby prohibited conduct to keep, shelter, or
maintain cows, horses, swine (including Vietnamese pigs), sheep, goats, camels,
mules, donkeys, llamas, ostriches, emus, rabbits (more than two), chickens,
ducks, geese, peacocks, guineas, all fur-bearing animals including chinchillas,
and snakes within the corporate limits within the city, except and unless a
permit for the same has been issued and is currently valid for the animal or
animals, or snake or snakes.
      (2)   Exception. Animals described herein may be kept on grounds owned
and controlled by the County Agricultural Society and the Fair Board, as well
as at the public schools.
   (B)   Continuing violation. If one is in continual violation of this
section, he, she, or it can be prosecuted for each day the violation occurs.
   (C)   Grandfathered permit. A permit will be issued for no more animals of
whatever description than was maintained upon the property of the applicant on
August 1, 1999. A permit will be issued for no more snakes than were maintained
upon the property of the applicant on July 19, 2016. At any time, except in the
ordinary course of business, one who maintains animals or snakes on property
within the corporate limits ceases to do so, the permit for the same expires
and the “grandfathered permit” is extinguished from consideration from future
permits.
   (D)   Application for permit. Any citizen desiring to keep, shelter, or
maintain prohibited animals may apply for a permit to do the same.
      (1)   The application shall describe the animals to be kept, including
number and gender, the expected date of commencement of the keeping, and the
period of time that they would be kept.
      (2)   The application must describe any measures to be taken for the
control of animal waste, noise, flies, vermin, or behaviors that could annoy
neighbors.
   (E)   Process. The application will be left at the City Council meeting at
the City Clerk’s office from the meeting at which it is first received until
one month has passed during which time public comment may be received.
      (1)   At the Council meeting following one month, the Council may, by
resolution, approve or disapprove of the application.
      (2)   Nothing herein would prohibit the city herein from enforcing other
nuisance and abatement of nuisance ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 554, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 614, passed 7-19-2016)
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of any city or village, or any
other public official authorized by any city or village to enforce state or
local animal control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Prior Code, § 96.50)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 96.51)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Prior Code, § 96.52)
(Ord. 616, passed 8-6-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1009, and 28-1012
DOGS
§ 98.15 LICENSE REQUIRED; TAGS.
   (A)   License required. Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over
the age of six months within the municipality shall within 30 days after
acquisition of the dog acquire a license for each dog annually by or before
January 1 of each year. The tax shall be delinquent from and after February 1;
provided, that the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the
corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of any year, shall be liable for the
payment of the dog tax levied herein. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon the payment of a license fee of $25 for each dog or $10 for each dog
which is spayed or neutered; provided, that the tax shall be $35 for every
license issued after the fee has become delinquent. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for the purpose his or her
name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept
by the owner. A certificate that the dog has had rabies shot, effective for the
ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (B)   Dogs; license tags. 
      (1)   Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the dog
until December 31 following licensing.
      (2)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the City Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the
balance of the year for which the license tag has been paid, and shall charge
and collect a fee of $5 for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
      (3)   All license fees and collections shall immediately credited to the
General Fund. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design that are of a different appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 96.20) (Ord. 574, passed 4-5-2005; Ord. 643, passed 12-4-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 98.16 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no license tax
shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog, or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of
the required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 96.22)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory fee exemption, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 98.17 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow the dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the City Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unneutered dog
with a license prescribed for a neutered dog.
(Prior Code, § 96.23) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.18 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the OWNER and possessor of the dog, and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Neb. RS 54-606) (Prior Code, § 96.24)
§ 98.19 RABIES THREAT; PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Council whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of the proclamation, or until the danger is passed.
      (2)   The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a
house, garage, or yard on the premises wherein the owner may reside.
   (B)   Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 96.25)
§ 98.20 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow a dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or designated animal
control officer to cause any dog found to be running at large within the
municipality to be taken up and impounded.
   (C)   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog found off the premises of the
owner and not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by
leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical
restraint.
(Prior Code, § 96.26) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Dog collars see required, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 98.21 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The County Sheriff or designated animal control officer shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 96.27) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.22 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the municipality.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this chapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the animal
control authority:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public
or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner’s property; or
         (c)   1.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially
dangerous dog by an animal control authority and the owner has received notice
of the determination and the dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
            2.   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the threat,
any injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was sustained by a person
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-
203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of the owner of the
dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or
who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; and/or
            2.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more
broken bones or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the
victim.
   (B)   Restraint. No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go
beyond the property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a
chain or leash.
   (C)   Confinement.
      (1)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (2)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If
the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from
the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the
property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and that informs persons
that a dangerous dog is on the property.
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this chapter. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Prior Code, § 96.28) (Ord. 514, passed 12-19-1989) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617, 54-618, 54-619, 54-620, and 54-621
§ 98.23 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit the City
Council from establishing and enforcing laws or ordinances at least as
stringent as the provisions of §
98.21.
(Prior Code, § 96.29) (Ord. 514, passed 12-19-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
§ 98.24 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.25 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property
of another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to police or
designated animal control officers acting within their power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 96.30) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1009
   Definitions, see Neb. RS 28-1008
§ 98.26 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk, that
any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an annoyance or
disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this section, the County
Sheriff or designated animal control officer shall investigate the complaint
and, if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to
silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the
municipal animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 96.31) Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 98.27 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy
any real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
   (B)   The owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal
to the value of the damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
98.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602, and 54-606
§ 98.28 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag, or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.29 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any animal control official designated by
resolution of the City Council to capture, secure, and remove in a humane
manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog violating any of the provisions
of this chapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and
shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of
not less than five days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any
significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the City
Clerk and at the pound within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification
of the impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall be
mailed to the owner listed on the license application of the dog, by regular
U.S. mail, at the address of the applicant.
   (B)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of all impoundment fees. The owners shall then be required to comply
with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after
release. If the dog is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, any animal control official designated by
resolution of the City Council, may dispose of the dog in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in
the judgment of any designated animal control official, a suitable home can be
found for any dog within the municipality, the dog shall be turned over to that
person, and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for the dog.
(Prior Code, § 96.34) (Ord. 574, passed 4-5-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
§ 98.30 RABIES SUSPECTED; INSPECTION; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten
any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten
days.
   (B)   If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs
of rabies at the end of the impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or,
in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with
the provisions herein. If the owner of the dog has proof of vaccination, it
shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of
at least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from
confinement.
(Prior Code, § 96.35)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 98.31 ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, in any manner, any dog or
cat within the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.36) (Ord. 524, passed 5-21-1991) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.32 MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS; DECLARED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any owner of any dog regulated by this chapter who repeatedly fails to care
for and control the animal, and whose animal has been impounded on three or
more occasions within any 12-month period for violating one or more provisions
of this chapter, shall be deemed to be maintaining a nuisance, the abatement of
which shall be the forfeiture of the dog or dogs in violation. Procedure for
abatement of nuisances set forth in §
94.16 shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 96.37) (Ord. 524, passed 5-21-1991)
§ 98.33 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The City Council may designate an animal control official to enforce and
administer provisions of this chapter in the same manner as the County Sheriff.
This provision shall, however, in no way impair the authority and ability of
the County Sheriff to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.38) (Ord. 524, passed 5-21-1991)
§ 98.34 KENNELS; DEFINITIONS, LICENSING, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOG. Both male and female.
      KENNEL. The ownership, possession, keeping, or harboring of three or more
dogs over the age of six months, or permitting three or more dogs over the age
of six months to be or remain upon his, her or its premises.
      OWNER. Person or persons, firms, associations, or corporations owning,
possessing, keeping, or harboring a dog, or permitting same to be or remain
upon or about his, her, or its premises.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel anywhere in the city
without having first obtained a kennel license from the City Clerk. A kennel
license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of a kennel license fee
of $100 per year. At the time of the application for the kennel license, the
owner shall state, upon forms provided for the purpose, the owner’s name,
address, location of the kennel, and other information as the City Council
shall reasonably require. The person maintaining the kennel shall license the
same from May 1 of each year. Kennel licenses shall be delinquent from and
after May 10 of each year.
      (2)   Obtaining a kennel license as described above shall in no way
eliminate the requirement to license each dog maintained at the kennel as
required by §
98.16.
   (C)   Kennel requirements. Each kennel operated in the city shall be
completely enclosed by fencing of sufficient height to retain the dogs kept
within the kennel. If necessary, fencing may be required across the top of any
kennel in order to retain a dog within the kennel. The kennel shall be designed
so as to permit any dog kept therein to stand at its full height within the
kennel without obstruction.
      (1)   A shelter shall be provided for each dog held within the kennel to
shelter it from inclement weather. No kennel shall enclose a ground area of
less than 48 square feet per dog held, confined, kept, or harbored in the
kennel. All kennels shall have facilities on the premises for feeding and
watering dogs kept in the kennel.
      (2)   All kennels shall be open to inspection by municipal or county
police officers or other officers or employees of the municipality having the
authority to inspect the premises.
(Prior Code, § 96.39) (Ord. 533, passed 10-5-1992; Ord. 585, passed 9-16-2008;
Ord. 588, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violation for keeping, sheltering, or maintaining the
animals listed in §
98.03(A) without a permit or violation of the use permitted shall be a fine of
$100.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Tax
   
110.01   Amount
   
110.02   Fire Department Fund
   
110.03   Collection date
   
110.04   Certificates
   
110.05   Failure to pay
   
110.06   Levies authorized
Slaughterhouses
   
110.20   Rules and regulations
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 110.01 AMOUNT.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
 
Alcoholic beverages                                                   
   Bottle club (per year)                                         $333.33
   Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer off-sale (per yea$200
Hawkers and peddlers (per year)                                      $15
Fire insurance companies (per year)                                  $5
Telephone companies (per year)                                       $100
Tobacco retailer                                                     $10
 
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 401, passed 7-5-1977; Ord. 471, passed 6-21-1983)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT FUND.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the city’s Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
Statutory reference:
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 110.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
§ 110.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
§ 110.06 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602,
or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation
tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that
Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704.
All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are
imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be
exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments
given exclusively by the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the city, for the use,
support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who shall credit the
same to a fund to be known as Special Occupation Tax Fund for benefit of the
Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire
Department and allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay over the
proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire
Department, as hereinbefore provided.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain such license.
(Ord. 615, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 632, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525, 35-106, and 53-132
SLAUGHTERHOUSES
§ 110.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any person desiring to conduct or maintain a slaughterhouse shall make
application in writing to the City Council stating therein, with precision, the
location, the size, the volume of stock to be handled, and any other
information which the City Council shall require concerning the proposed
slaughterhouse to assist it in determining whether or not to grant the permit.
If the City Council grants a permit to the applicant, it shall specify the
exact location of the proposed slaughterhouse and the size thereof. Upon
receipt of the permit, the applicant may maintain and conduct a slaughterhouse
of the exact description found on the permit. If, at any time, the City Council
shall determine that the slaughterhouse has become a nuisance, it shall notify
the person or persons named on the permit to alter, repair, or cease to operate
the slaughterhouse.
(Prior Code, § 110.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
111.05   Sidewalk cafés
   
111.06   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.26   Catering licenses
   
111.27   Display of license
   
111.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
111.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Hours of sale
   
111.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.50   Original package required
   
111.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 611, passed 7-17-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
   Related provisions, see Neb. 53-180
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the general public
except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 608, passed 7-17-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186 and 53-186.01
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property.
      (2)   An officer removing an intoxicated person from public or quasi-
public property shall make a reasonable effort to take the intoxicated person
to his or her home or to place the person in any hospital, clinic, or mental
health substance use treatment center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury.
      (3)   The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (4)   If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 SIDEWALK CAFÉS.
   The City Council may permit the public streets and sidewalks within the city
limits to be occupied and used under a lease, license, or other permission by a
person, business, or others for the sale of services or goods and to permit the
placement of nonpermanent sidewalk cafés, tables, chairs, benches, and other
temporary improvements from which the sales can be transacted on the public
streets and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-4301
§ 111.06 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (b)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA.
         (a)   The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the
motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the
driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area.
         (b)   PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the last upright
seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by the driver or
a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in the municipality.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in the municipality.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of,
but not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code Title 237.
      (2)   Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in the municipality if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 597, passed 7-17-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.08
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., unless within specific
exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A) on May 18, 1983,
shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from retaining or
renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees
carried on within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the governing body may make and
submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to
grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule
or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is
being violated, and at that time examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines
that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated
pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted
by the governing body has been or is being violated shall report such violation
in writing to the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided for citizen complaints, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at
the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing
the governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The City Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution, which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS
53-101 et seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the
municipality in any sum which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee
required to be paid under the Act to obtain that license.
(Prior Code, § 111.23) (Ord. 609, passed 7-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, and 53-134.03
§ 111.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules and regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
city, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses
shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year.
      (2)   If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a
license are filed in the office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of
the city on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City
Council shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the license
should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section,
the City Council may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in
Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the district court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., or any city ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., or any city ordinance by any officer, director, manager, or other agent
or employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with
the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and
held to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee
shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done
or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the
rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in
writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and shall be signed and
sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular
provision, rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in
detail upon which belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged
there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing
within ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be
disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was
filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order
for purposes of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in
Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any
church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to any location within
such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously prior
to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the Commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Prior Code, § 111.45) (Ord 612, passed 7-17-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177 and 53-177.01
   State Commission may waive 300 foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities
shall be adequate and convenient for customers and patrons.
   (B)   The licensed premises shall be subject to any health inspections the
City Council or the city police may make or cause to be made.
   (C)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for or
renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein, provided that such limitations shall not apply after
12:00 p.m. on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a
license pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124(6):
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine)  
   Secular days:                       
      Off sale                     6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      On sale                      6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays:                            
      Off sale                     12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      On sale                      12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and wine                             
   Secular days:                       
      Off sale                     6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      On sale                      6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays:                            
      Off sale                     6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      On sale                      6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 111.48) (Ord. 591, passed 10-5-2010; Ord. 617, passed 8-20-2013;
Ord. 631, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Prior Code, § 111.49) (Ord. 610, passed 7-17-2012; Ord. 635, passed 4-7-2015)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 111.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.52 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the State
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Bingo
   
112.01   Regulation
   
112.02   Incorporated regulations
BINGO
§ 112.01 REGULATION.
   (A)   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in
accordance with all laws of the municipality and the state if the game of bingo
is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed by the
state to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from the City
Council before commencing operation of the game. Application shall be made to
the City Clerk for a permit. The application form shall contain information and
documents or copies thereof as the City Council deems necessary to determine
whether to grant or reject the application.
   (B)   Upon the determination that granting the application would be proper,
the City Council shall immediately direct the City Clerk to issue the license
to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit fee of $10. The license
shall be subject to revocation at any time for good cause. Any person or
persons so licensed shall be subject to any other fees, rules, and regulations
which the City Council may designate. All permits so issued will automatically
expire on September 30 following their issuance or renewal. The fee for each
renewal unless otherwise prescribed shall be in the sum of $10. The fee shall
be credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place
where a game of bingo is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permit required, see Neb. RS 9-236
§ 112.02 INCORPORATED REGULATIONS.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be and will constitute a part of this subchapter as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the municipality as well as against the state. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the municipality for each of the
offenses and, if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 9-201 through 9-266) (Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the city.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city, the local address of such individual, the permanent
address of such individual and the capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered. If goods, their invoice value and whether they
are to be sold by sample as well as from stock. If goods, where and by whom
such goods are manufactured or grown, and where such goods are at the time of
application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, valid reasons for disapproval of an application would be tangible
evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “No solicitors invited.”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “No solicitors invited,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.03   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
130.04   Discharge of firearms
   
130.05   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.06   Disorderly conduct
   
130.07   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.08   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.09   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.10   Loitering, trespassing, municipal property
   
130.11   Sex offender registration
   
130.12   Curfew
   
130.13   Fireworks; discharge prohibited; exceptions
   
130.14   Fence regulations
   
130.15   Shipping containers as storage buildings
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding,
without legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of
any watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the
obstructing or encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any
of the public highways, streets, or alleys of the city, shall be deemed
nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in
every such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed
in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or on the adjoining
streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain
thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the
owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
city to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written
appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held
within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by a
hearing officer appointed by the Mayor.
      (2)   The hearing officer may be an elected or appointed officer. The
hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days
after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the city may have
such work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the city
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city
may have such work done.
      (3)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (toum), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa), and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 626, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.05 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.07 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.08 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being Neb. RS
60-301 et seq., affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a MOBILE HOME or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the city shall
be issued at no cost to the city.
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in divisions (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating
that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in divisions
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this city,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from
public property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
city which shall have custody.
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A) above.
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (I) shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) (Ord. 633, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1903, 60-1903.01, 60-1904
through 60-1909, and 60-1911
§ 130.09 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any
property within the municipality, other than municipal property, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow any partially
dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on the
property longer than five days. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge
or in control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow any vehicle for which licensing and
registration is required by law, which has been unregistered for more than 30
days, to remain on the property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, to
a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner, when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation of the
business, or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the municipality. Any vehicle
allowed to remain on property in violation of this section shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be abated. Any person violating this section shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.09) (Ord. 577, passed 12-6-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10 LOITERING, TRESPASSING, MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon or to enter upon
or to loiter about any municipal facility without the consent of the City
Council or its designated representative in charge of the facility.
   (B)   The term MUNICIPAL FACILITY shall include any of the following,
together with any enclosed grounds attached thereto:
      (1)   Pump house;
      (2)   Swimming pool;
      (3)   Airport;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (5)   Water facilities north of the municipality; or
      (6)   Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 130.10) (Ord. 374, passed 9-4-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11 SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict those persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
the acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section, inclusive, to serve the city’s
compelling interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations
where children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain
sexual predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Violations. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section, inclusive, shall not apply to a sexual
predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 130.11) (Ord. 578, passed 6-6-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003 and 29-4013
§ 130.12 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number the plural number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and
not merely directory.
      CITY. The City of Humboldt, Nebraska.
      CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 19 who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
      GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café,
theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
   (B)   Curfew for minors. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the U.S.
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Responsibility of owners of public places. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of public place to
knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors under the age of 18 between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. or 11:00 p.m., as provided in division (B) above, and
6:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (D)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions hereof shall be
penalized under the provisions of the general penalty section.
(Prior Code, § 130.12) (Ord. 558, passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.13 FIREWORKS; DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, light or ignite any
fireworks or firecrackers within the corporate limits of the city at any time
except from June 25 through and including July 4 and from December 29 through
and including December 31, and on such dates, only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. On July 4 and December 31, permissible fireworks may be
discharged from 8:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. Violation of this section shall be
considered an offense subject the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 649, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.14 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      BACKYARD. Portion of the property that is on the opposite end of the
front yard.
      CORNER LOT. A lot with two street frontages with the front of the house
facing one street and the side of the house adjoining the other street.
      FENCE. A fence or similar structure serving as an enclosure, barrier or
boundary.
      FRONT YARD. That portion of the property that is adjacent to a street.
      OPEN FENCE. A fence, including gates, which has, for each one foot wide
segment extending over the entire length and height of the fence, 50% or more
of the surface area in open spaces which afford a direct view through the
fence.
      SIDE YARD. That portion of the property that is between the front and
back yards.
      SOLID FENCE. A fence, including gates, which has more than 50% of the
surface area closed.
   (B)   Permit required. No fence shall be erected, constructed or maintained
within the city limits or zoning jurisdiction of the city unless a building
permit therefor is applied for, approved and issued by the Building Inspector
and unless such fence is erected, constructed and maintained in conformance
with the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Application procedure; fee.
      (1)   Written application for a fence permit shall be made upon a form
prescribed by the City Clerk, shall be signed by the property owner or his/her
duly authorized agent or attorney, and shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount set by the City Council by resolution and on file with the City Clerk
for inspection by the public during normal business hours.
      (2)   Each application shall designate the address to which notices shall
be sent and shall be accompanied by a building plan showing the location of
iron pins or other property markers denoting the lot lines.
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by structural drawings showing
the location of the fence on the applicant's property, the height and type of
fence, and specification of materials to be used for its construction.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall submit such application to the Building
Inspector and for their review and recommendations. Any permit issued shall
conform to such recommendations. In addition, the applicant shall verify that
they have contacted diggers hotline and that the utility lines have been marked
prior to construction.
      (5)   Two property owners desiring to build one fence on the common lot
line of adjacent side yards or back yards may file one application jointly
signed by them as applicants.
   (D)   Approval of application; time limit. The Building Inspector is
authorized to approve all applications for fence permits which conform to the
provisions of this section and to issue permits for the erection and
construction thereof. All permits issued hereunder shall be valid for a period
of six months from date of issuance; if the fence authorized is not fully
erected and constructed within said period, the permit shall be null and void
and a new permit must be issued before construction can begin.
   (E)   Location and placement restricted. Except as may be otherwise
specifically provided in this section, no fence shall be erected, constructed
or maintained on any lot or tract of land outside the surveyed lot lines of the
property to which it belongs. No fence shall be constructed which would cause a
water or snow problem to an adjacent property. Any fence constructed must be at
least ten feet from such adjacent residence.
   (F)   Traffic hazards prohibited.
      (1)   No fence shall be erected, constructed or maintained in such a
manner as to obstruct the view of drivers of vehicles approaching street
intersections or which otherwise creates a traffic safety hazard.
      (2)   Any fence constructed within the front yard of a residential lot
may be an open or closed fence not more than four feet above the ground.
      (3)   Setbacks shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front yard setback shall be one foot inside of existing
sidewalks. Where no sidewalk exists, then the setback shall be at least four
feet from the property line.
         (b)   Rear yard: Fence must be erected on the property line.
         (c)   Side yard: Fence must be erected on the property line.
         (d)   Front yard fences shall not exceed four feet in height.
         (e)   No foliage or shrubbery exceeding three feet in height shall be
planted or maintained in such areas which will obstruct the view of drivers
approaching the street intersection.
   (G)   Height and materials permitted; special use permit.
      (1)   Fences shall (A) be constructed of commonly accepted material for
residential fences such as wood, plastic, vinyl, PVC/resin, concrete, stone,
masonry, wrought iron, or chain link; (B) be structurally sound; and (C) have a
neat, professional and finished appearance.
      (2)   Closed fencing to provide for privacy may be constructed to a
height not exceeding eight feet above the ground and provided that no part
thereof is situated within the front yard. Only side and rear yards can have a
fence that is eight feet fence high.
      (3)   Any person desiring a variance from the height and material
requirements of this section shall be required to apply for a special use
permit to the City Council.
   (H)   Certain materials and fences prohibited; special use permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or maintain
any barbed wire fence except for perimeter security fencing of buildings
constructed in industrial districts (the plans and specifications for which
require city approval before commencement of construction), and for farm
fencing constructed for agricultural purposes in agricultural districts.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to erect; construct or maintain any fence with a barbed selvage at its
top.
      (3)   No electric fence shall be erected, constructed or maintained
within the city or within its zoning jurisdiction except in the Agricultural
Zone for agricultural purposes.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed of material not commonly used for
residential fences, such as non-treated or natural wood products, fiberglass,
barbed wire, wooden pallets, chicken wire or corrugated metals.
      (5)   Any person desiring a variance from the prohibition against use of
certain materials and types of fences may apply to the City Council for a
special use permit.
   (I)   Maintenance required. All fences existing at the adoption of this
section and all fences hereafter erected or constructed shall be maintained in
good repair. If a fence is not maintained in good repair, it shall be deemed a
nuisance and shall be subject to the procedures and penalties prescribed in the
nuisance ordinances of the city.
   (J)   Finished side facing outside of property. The finished side of the
fence must face to the outside of the property. Visible supports and other
structural components shall face inward toward the subject property.
   (K)   Fences in existence at date of adoption hereof. Any existing fence
constructed pursuant to a permit issued by the city in conformity with the
ordinances in force and effect, which fence is in place as of the date of
adoption of this section, may remain without change in accordance with this
section notwithstanding the same may be in conflict or violation with one or
more provisions of this or prior ordinances; provided, however, replacement or
change of any such existing fence or addition of new fence must meet all
requirements of this section.
   (L)   Gates for utility access. All property owners with an existing fence
not complying with this section may be required to provide fence gates to
provide access to the property for utility maintenance and repair.
   (M)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any fence permit issued hereunder may be revoked or canceled by the
city for reasons as follows:
         (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation, concealment, error or material
omission in the application for a fence permit or in the accompanying survey or
related document.
         (b)   The fence authorized by the permit as issued has not been or is
not being erected or constructed in conformity with the provisions of the
application, its related survey and other documents or is otherwise in
violation of any part or division of this section.
      (2)   Should it be determined that any person is replacing, changing or
adding to any existing fence in place as of the date of adoption of this
section without having obtained a valid fence permit as herein provided or that
such existing fence poses a traffic safety hazard or is dangerous and
prohibited under the provisions herein, the City Clerk shall forthwith notify
the Richardson County Sheriff’s Department of such violation. The Sheriff’s
Department shall personally deliver or leave a notice of violation at the
residence of the offending party or owner, as the case may be. Upon receipt of
such notice, the party violating the terms herein shall thereupon cause the
offending fence to be removed or shall cease and desist from all further
efforts in adding to, replacing or changing such fence until the same conforms
to the requirements of this section. Failure to remove such fence or to remedy
the violation within 15 days of receipt of notice shall constitute a violation
of this section.
      (3)   The City Attorney is authorized and empowered to enforce any and
all provisions of this section and to initiate or defend suits in courts of
competent jurisdiction as may be required to enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (N)   Denial of permit; hearing.
      (1)   In the event that the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or
other person has made an application for a fence permit and such permit has
been denied, said party may appeal such decision to the City Council. To make
an appeal, said person shall notify the City Clerk with a written statement
setting forth the reasons for the disagreement or dispute and the relief
requested. The written request shall be made within 14 days of mailing of the
notice of denial. If written notice is received by the City Clerk within 14
days of mailing or delivery of notice, a hearing shall be held before the City
Council, either at a special meeting or at a regularly scheduled monthly
meeting. The Clerk shall notify the person requesting the hearing in writing of
the time, place, and date of such hearing.
      (2)   The hearing before the City Council shall be informal and not
governed by the Nebraska Rules of Evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-
judicial in nature and its decision shall be based on the evidence presented at
the hearing. The person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal
counsel or other representative, may present witnesses and offer evidence, and
may examine and copy, at his/her own expense, and not less than three business
days before the hearing, the records of the city regarding the inspection and
notice. The City Council need not make a written finding of fact and may make
its pronouncement orally at the hearing. The decision of the Council shall be
final unless appealed. Failure of the person to attend the hearing shall
relieve the Council of any further procedures before action is taken as set
forth in a notice.
   (O)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may
appeal such decision to the District Court of Richardson County, Nebraska. Such
appeal shall and must be taken within 30 days of the pronouncement of the
Council's decision.
(Ord. 681, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 130.15 SHIPPING CONTAINERS AS STORAGE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to limit, except as provided herein,
the placement and use of any shipping container as an accessory building,
storage building or living unit on residentially zoned, commercially zoned and
other zoned land where residential uses are established.
   (B)   No shipping containers be allowed in zoned residential areas. A
container will only be allowed at residential properties during a renovation,
which should not exceed three months.
   (C)   Commercially zoned will be allowed to use shipping containers on a
case-by-case basis, as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Any current container owner must obtain a permit from the City Clerk
and ensure that the container is properly painted and anchored, as enforced by
the City Council.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Should it be determined that any person that has the placement and
use of any shipping container as an accessory building, storage building or
living unit on residentially zoned, commercially zoned and other zoned land as
of the date of adoption of this section without having obtained a valid permit
as herein provided and prohibited under the provisions herein, the City Clerk
shall forthwith notify the Richardson County Sheriff’s Department of such
violation. The Sheriff’s Department shall personally deliver or leave a notice
of violation at the residence of the offending party or owner, as the case may
be. Upon receipt of such notice, the party violating the terms herein shall
thereupon cause the offending shipping container to be removed or shall cease
and desist from all further efforts of placing a shipping container on property
until the same conforms to the requirements of this section. Failure to remove
such shipping container or to remedy the violation within 15 days of receipt of
notice shall constitute a violation of this section.
      (2)   The City Attorney is authorized and empowered to enforce any and
all provisions of this article and to initiate or defend suits in courts of
competent jurisdiction as may be required to enforce the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 682, passed 4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 131: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
131.01   Title
   
131.02   Purpose
   
131.03   Definitions
   
131.04   Smoking prohibited; exceptions
   
131.05   Proprietor to prohibit smoking; exceptions
   
131.06   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the city’s Smoking Regulation Act.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 131.02 PURPOSE.
   The City Council does hereby declare it to be the public policy of the city
to encourage places of employment and public places to reduce the health and
safety risks posed by smoking in places of employment and public places. The
City Council authorizes the Health Director of the Southeast District Health
Department and law enforcement to administer and enforce this chapter within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 131.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The city’s Smoking Regulation Act, being
Ch. 131 of this code.
   EMPLOYED. Hired, contracted, subcontracted, or otherwise engaged to furnish
goods or services.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wage(s), profit, or other remuneration.
   EMPLOYER. A person, nonprofit entity, sole proprietorship, partnership,
joint venture, corporation, limited partnership, limited liability company, co-
op, firm, trust, association, organization, or other business entity formed for
profit-making purposes, including retail establishments, where goods or
services are sold, who employs one or more employees.
   GUESTROOM or SUITE. Sleeping rooms and directly associated private areas,
such as bathrooms, living rooms, and kitchen areas, if any, rented to the
public for their exclusive transient occupancy including, but not limited to,
guestrooms or suites in hotels, motels, inns, lodges, or other such
establishments.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the Southeast District Health Department or
authorized representative(s).
   INDOOR AREA. An area enclosed by a floor, a ceiling, and walls on all sides
that are continuous and solid except for closeable entry and exit doors and
windows and in which less than 20% of the total wall area is permanently open
to the outdoors. For walls in excess of eight feet in height, only the first
eight feet shall be used in determining such percentage.
   INTERNATIONAL NO-SMOKING SYMBOL. A pictorial representation of a burning
cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An indoor area under the control of a proprietor that
an employee accesses as part of his or her employment without regard to whether
the employee is present or work is occurring at any given time. The indoor area
includes, but is not limited to, any work area, employee breakroom, restroom,
conference room, meeting room, classroom, employee cafeteria, and hallway. A
private residence is a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT when such residence is being used as
a licensed child care program and one or more children who are not occupants of
such residence are present.
   PROPRIETOR. Any employer, owner, operator, supervisor, manager or any other
person who controls, governs, or directs the activities in a place of
employment or public place.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An indoor area to which the public is invited or in which the
public is permitted, whether or not the public is always invited or permitted.
A private residence shall not be considered a PUBLIC PLACE.
   SMOKE, SMOKES, or SMOKING. The lighting of any cigarette, cigar, or pipe; or
the possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe, regardless of its
composition.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 131.04 SMOKING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in a place of employment or a
public place, except as designated by a proprietor pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PROPRIETOR TO PROHIBIT SMOKING; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any proprietor of any place of employment or
public place to allow smoking therein except as follows:
      (1)   Guestrooms or suites, provided the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The number of rooms or suites designated for smoking shall be no
greater than 20% of the total number of guestrooms or suites; and
         (b)   Each guestroom or suite where smoking is allowed shall have a
permanent sign posted containing the words “smoking allowed” on each entrance.
      (2)   As part of a study conducting research into the health effects of
smoking in a scientific or analytical laboratory either governed by state or
federal law or at a college or university approved by the State Coordinating
Commission for Post Secondary Education. The proprietor shall post a temporary
sign on all entrances to the laboratory indicating that smoking is being
allowed for the purposes of research.
   (B)   Proprietors shall conspicuously post or display one or more signs
depicting the International No-Smoking Symbol so that the signs are readily
viewable by employees and the public.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where smoking is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Health Director and law enforcement agencies are hereby authorized to
inspect a place of employment or public place at any reasonable time to
determine compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in a place of employment or a public place in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a minimum fine of:
      (1)   For the first offense: $100 and costs;
      (2)   For the second offense: $200 and costs; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent offenses: $500 and costs.
   (B)   A proprietor of a place of employment or public place upon whom a duty
is placed by the provisions of this chapter who shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to perform such duty, or who shall knowingly violate any of the provisions
hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a minimum fine of:
      (1)   For the first offense: $100 and costs;
      (2)   For the second offense: $200 and costs; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent offenses: $500 and costs.
   (C)   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (D)   Every act or omission of whatever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by an officer, manager, supervisor, agent
or employee of any proprietor, if said act or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge, or approval of the proprietor, shall be deemed and
held to be the act or omission of such proprietor, and said proprietor shall be
punishable in the same manner as if said act or omission had been committed by
such proprietor personally.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. 582, passed 5-6-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   TRAILER CAMPS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Building Inspector
   
150.32   Standards
   
150.33   Determination and notice
   
150.34   Hearing and appeal
   
150.35   Special assessments
   
150.36   Emergency
   
150.37   Official liability
Building Inspector
   
150.50   Power and authority
   
150.51   Right of entry
   
150.52   Permit cards
   
150.53   Time of inspection
   
150.54   Appeal from decision
Adoption of Codes
   
150.65   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
150.66   Property Maintenance Code; adopted by reference
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building, dwelling, fence, or other
structure or cause the same to be done, shall file with the City Clerk an
application for a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a
form to be furnished by the City Clerk for that purpose. Every such application
shall set forth the legal description of the land upon which the construction
or relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the
principle dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect,
and contractor, and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application, plans, and specification so filed with the City Clerk shall be
checked and examined by the City Council, and if they are found to be in
conformity with the requirements of the this chapter and all other ordinances
applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize the City Clerk to issue
the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the Council by
resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application
procedures contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 634, passed 1-3-2016)
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials, and debris by suitable
barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure,
neglect, or refusal of the owner, tenant, or lessee to erect and maintain such
protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building
Inspector or other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the
buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
move any building or structure within the city without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used, and such other information as the City Council may require.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142 
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City
Council, the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
 
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby
defined to mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its
condition, and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the
health of the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard;
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
such structure; and/or
         (d)   Which is otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy.
      (2)   Any such UNSAFE BUILDING in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following
defects are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures:
      (1)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the
supporting member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
      (3)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the occupants
of the people of the city;
      (5)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary,
or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living
that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or
disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare
of those living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire
or panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of communication;
      (8)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
      (9)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the people of the municipality because of their
condition;
      (10)   Those having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the city which are, after inspection, deemed
to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer; and
      (11)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this subchapter,
any provision of the Fire Code, any provision of the county health rules and
regulations or other applicable provisions of city ordinances including, but
not limited to, the Building Code, Property Maintenance Code, or Residential
Code adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019)
§ 150.31 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in a dangerous or unsafe manner;
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the city for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a dangerous or unsafe building or structure within the terms
of this subchapter;
   (C)   Report to the governing body the results of the inspection;
   (D)   Appear at all hearings and testify as to the condition of the unsafe
or dangerous building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 150.36) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019)
§ 150.32 STANDARDS.
   In the event that it is determined that any building or structure is unsafe
or dangerous the following standards shall be followed in substance in
determining whether the structure or building should be repaired, vacated, or
demolished.
   (A)   (1)   If the unsafe or dangerous building or structure can reasonably
be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of any of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be ordered to be repaired.
      (2)   If repair is pursued, then the structure capable of repair shall be
repaired to the standards set by the code official, within one year of the date
of the declaration and notice set forth below.
   (B)   If the unsafe or dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   No structure shall be boarded up for future repair beyond a period of
90 calendar days.
   (D)   (1)   In any case where an unsafe or dangerous building or structure
cannot be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be demolished.
      (2)   In all cases where the unsafe or dangerous building is a fire
hazard existing or erected in violation of the applicable fire codes and
regulations, or any other provision of an ordinance of the city or state
statute, it shall be demolished.
   (E)   The presumption will be to order demolition of the structure if the
reasonable estimated repairs exceed 50% of the assessed value of the structure.
No structure shall be boarded up for future repair beyond a period of 90
calendar days. Any structure capable of repair, shall be repaired to the
standards set by the code official, within one year of the date of the notice
and order; should such structure remain in a state of disrepair after the one
year period, such structure will be demolished, unless there is a valid
building in good standing for the structure.
(Prior Code, § 150.37) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.33 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector, specially designated building
inspector, or a professional engineer shall be of the opinion that any building
or structure in the city or within the zoning jurisdiction, is an unsafe
building, said person shall file a written statement to this effect with the
City Clerk.
      (2)   The Clerk shall thereupon cause the property to be posted
accordingly, and shall file a copy of such determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner
thereof, any encumbrancer and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified
mail or by personal service.
      (3)   If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful,
notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which
the nuisance is to be abated or removed.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and that
the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. Such
notice may be in the following terms:
      “To (owner and/or occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as:
      You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after
inspection by ___________________.
      The causes for this decision are: ______________________________ (here
insert the facts as to each dangerous condition).
      You must remove, remedy or alter by repair, or demolish the building
within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will
proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the hearing
officer appointed by the governing body, by filing with the City Clerk within
ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing. In
the event the Municipality has the work done, the municipality may levy and
assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefited or recover the same in a civil action as provided by law.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of such notice (or date of posting/
publication), or taken an appeal from the determination of the hearing officer
that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person as provided above, the governing body may proceed to
remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe building as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.38) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.34 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner, and
occupant thereof, if any, of the building, within the time stipulated, may in
writing to the City Clerk appeal said notice and request a hearing. A hearing
on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and
shall be conducted by a hearing officer appointed by the governing body. Said
person shall sit as a hearing officer and shall render a decision on the appeal
within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing and the decision
shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail or personal service. If
an appeal is not filed and compliance has not been met within 60 days as
indicated in the notice, or, in the case a hearing was requested, if the
hearing officer rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days from the
sending of the decision, or personal service of the decision, to complete the
demolition and removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not completed
the work, the governing body shall proceed to cause such work to be done;
provided, the property owner may appeal such decision to the appropriate court
for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the governing body
shall be stayed. Where the city has not adopted a building code, the statutes
of the state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 150.39) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, and 77-1725.01
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate, or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the
property owner.
   (B)   A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the City
Council. The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
   (C)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done and request for
payment is sent by first-class mail (envelope conspicuously marked for its
importance), the governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; and/or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 150.40) (Ord. 648, passed 10-22-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, and 77-1725.01
§ 150.36 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an imminent danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the city to
do so, the city may summarily repair or demolish and remove such building or
structure.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.37 OFFICIAL LIABILITY.
   The code official, Building Inspector, Zoning Administrator, member of the
Board of Appeals or employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while
acting for the jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge
of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall
not thereby be rendered civilly or criminally liable personally, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or
property as a result of an act or by reason of an omission in the discharge of
official duties.
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.50 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the city as often
as necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall
have the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council,
all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or relocation which violates
any provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or
she shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue
any construction, alteration, or relocation when the City Council is satisfied
that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall
be followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the city has building and
housing regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
chief city law enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.51 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.52 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on
the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.53 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or
his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work
fails to comply with the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection
shall be made after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected;
frame inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and
backing is in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final
inspection shall be made after the building is completed and ready for
occupancy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be
done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without the
written approval of the Building Inspector.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.54 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   (A)   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any
city building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the
Building Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
Building Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular
building make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements
prescribed by the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or
her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after
the decision or order of the Building Inspector has been made.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear all appeals and shall have the power and
authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the Building
Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the
aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review shall be in
writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be made.
   (C)   A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by the building or housing regulation to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.65 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   That a certain document, at least one copy of which is on file in the
office of the City Clerk being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2021 edition, including Appx. Ch. A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J,
K, and N (see International Building Code § 101.2.1, 2018 edition), as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the city for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Building Code on file in the office of the city
are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1: “City of Humboldt;”
      (2)   Section 105.22: “Repealed, all fences shall require permits;”
      (3)   Section 1612.3: “City of Humboldt;”
      (4)   Section 1612.3: “8/19/1987:” and
      (5)   Section 3: “Amend municipal code
Chapter 150 by adding the following section.”
(Ord. 651, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 150.66 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   To provide for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for
supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said 2018 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the city a copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes in division (B) below:
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1: “City of Humboldt, Nebraska;”
      (2)   Section 103.5: “Building permit fee schedule as set forth by
resolution;”
      (3)   Section 112.4: “$100, $500;”
      (4)   Section 302.4: “Twelve inches;”
      (5)   Section 304.14: “May 1, November 1;”
      (6)   Section 602.3: “September 1, May 1;”
      (7)   Section 602.4: “September 1, May 1;” and
      (8)   Section 303.2, “Enclosures”, is amended to read as follows:
 303.2 Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing water
more than 24 inches in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or
barrier not less than 54 inches in height above the finished ground level
measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such
barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching
device is less than 54 inches above the bottom of the gate, the release
mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-
latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and
latch when released from an open position of 6 inches from the gatepost. An
existing pool enclosure shall not be removed, replaced or changed in a manner
that reduces its effectiveness as a safety barrier.
Exceptions:    Inground pools with a safety cover that complies with ASTM F1346
shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 303.2.
      Portable above-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas are not subject
to the requirements of 303.2, but limited access ladders or steps providing
entry must be removed to render the pool, hot tub, or spa inaccessible when not
in use. In the event that a permanent ladder, steps, facade, or deck is erected
adjacent to or surrounding an otherwise portable pool, hot tub, or spa, said
pool, hot tub, or spa will be subject to the requirements of Section 303.2.
      If a pool, hot tub, or spa subject to the requirements of Section 303.2
is constructed wholly or partially above ground level, that part of the pool
which is out of the ground may be included as part of the pool enclosure height
requirement; provided, that the ground is level or slopes away from the pool
for at least three feet from the pool wall. On above-ground pools where the
pool wall constitutes all or part of the pool enclosure, the entrance into the
pool must either be enclosed in a fence with a gate, both of which meet the
requirements of Section 303.2, or the entrance to the pool must be by use of a
limited access ladder which has provisions for making entry to the pool
inaccessible when the pool is not in use.
(Ord. 651, passed 1-5-2021; Ord. 667, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Powers
   
151.004   Interpretation
   
151.005   Conflict
   
151.006   Building permits
   
151.007   Amendments
   
151.008   Modifications
   
151.009   Definitions
Approval Procedure
   
151.020   Preliminary plat; final plat
   
151.021   Plats outside corporate limits
   
151.022   Submission to the school board
   
151.023   Professional assistance
Plat Specifications
   
151.035   Preliminary plat
   
151.036   Final plat
Design Standards
   
151.050   Conformance to the comprehensive plan
   
151.051   Conformance to street plan
   
151.052   Street classification table
   
151.053   Cul-de-sacs; dead end streets
   
151.054   Intersections and jogs
   
151.055   Alleys
   
151.056   Lot access
   
151.057   Blocks
   
151.058   Minimum lot dimensions
   
151.059   Easements
   
151.060   Public sites and open spaces
Subdivision Improvements
   
151.075   Monuments
   
151.076   Water lines
   
151.077   Sanitary sewers
   
151.078   Storm drains
   
151.079   Sidewalks
   
151.080   Grading
   
151.081   Curb and gutter
   
151.082   Surfacing
   
151.083   Specifications
   
151.084   Other improvements
   
151.085   Municipal control
Enforcement
   
151.100   Street plan
   
151.101   Filing
   
151.102   Fees
   
151.103   Transaction before plat approval
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   The subdivision regulations as herein set forth are intended to provide for
harmonious development of the city and its environs, for the integration of new
subdivision streets with other existing or planned streets or with other
features of the comprehensive plan of the municipality, for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and air, for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, or prosperity, to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality
and its planning area, and to secure equitable handling of all subdivision
plats by providing uniform procedures and standards for observance by
subdividers and the Planning Commission and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.001)
§ 151.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all land located within
the legal boundaries of the municipality, as the same may be amended by
subsequent annexation, and shall also include all land lying within one mile of
the corporate limits of the municipality and not located in any other
municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-1002) (Prior Code, § 151.002)
§ 151.003 POWERS.
   No plat of a subdivision of land lying within the zoning jurisdiction of the
municipality shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been submitted to,
and a report and recommendation thereon made by, the Planning Commission to the
City Council, and the City Council has approved the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 151.003)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate subdivisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003
§ 151.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying these regulations, they shall be held to be
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 151.004)
§ 151.005 CONFLICT.
   No final plat of land within the force and effect of the existing zoning
chapter shall be approved unless it conforms to the regulations of this
chapter. Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards or
dimensions noted herein and those contained in the zoning chapter, building
regulations chapter, or other official regulations or ordinances, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 151.005)
Statutory reference:
   Conflict of laws, see Neb. RS 19-914
§ 151.006 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Not more than two building permits shall be issued for each separate tract
existing at the effective date of this chapter, unless the tract shall have
been platted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.006)
§ 151.007 AMENDMENTS.
   Any regulations or provisions of these regulations may from time to time be
amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the City Council;
provided, however, that the amendments shall not become effective until after a
study and a report by the Commission and until after a public hearing in
relation thereto has been held, public notice of which shall have been
published in a newspaper of general circulation at least one time ten days
prior to the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 151.007)
Statutory reference:
   Amendments and hearings generally, see Neb. RS 19-904 and 19-905
§ 151.008 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Where, in the case of particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown
that strict compliance with the requirements of these regulations would result
in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography or
other non-self-inflicted conditions or that these conditions would result in
inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of these regulations, the City
Council after report by the Commission may vary, modify, or waive the
requirements so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided, however, that the variance, modifications, or waiver will
not adversely affect the development, the character of which shall be in
conformance with recommended platting and development practices in the general
area of the proposed subdivision, will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of the regulations, and will not interfere with carrying out
the comprehensive plan of the planning area of the municipality.
   (B)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by
the City Council after report by the Commission in the case of a plan or
program for a new town, a complete community, a neighborhood, unit, a group
housing development, or an urban renewal project involving the resubdividing
and rebuilding of blighted or slum areas; provided, however, that the area
within which modifications are granted contains not less than five acres, and
provided, further, that the placement of structures within the area is shown on
the development plan and becomes a part of the recorded plat.
(Prior Code, § 151.008)
§ 151.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which is used primarily for vehicular access to
the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or series of plans for the future development
of the municipality and approved, as may be required, as a guide for future
development. The plan may alternatively be called by the descriptive terms as a
MASTER PLAN or DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, or a public agency or utility for a specific purpose or purposes.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Minor streets parallel to and adjacent to arterial streets
and highways, and which reduce the number of access points to the arterial
street or highway for the purpose of increased traffic safety.
   LOT. A measured portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for development.
   MAJOR STREET. A street designated as a major street in the comprehensive
plan for the municipality.
   MINOR STREET. A street designated as a minor street in the comprehensive
plan for the municipality.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLAT. A map drawn to scale from an accurate survey and including items set
forth herein along with all certificates and statements required herein and by
statute, for the purpose of recording as a subdivision of land. Without
modifying adjectives, it shall refer to land subdivision documents which have
been officially recorded.
   STREET. A right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a primary
means of access to the abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. A natural person, firm, partnership, association, or any other
group who or which submits a proposed subdivision for approval.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into three or
more lots, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of transfer of ownership or building development.
(Prior Code, § 151.009)
APPROVAL PROCEDURE
§ 151.020 PRELIMINARY PLAT; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preliminary plat. In obtaining approval for a proposed subdivision,
the subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat showing and including data
specified in §
151.035 and in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and file with the
City Council eight copies of the preliminary plat and written application for
conditional approval.
      (2)   The City Council shall refer the proposed preliminary plat to the
Planning Commission for its consideration. The preliminary plat shall be
referred to the Planning Commission at least ten days prior to the meeting at
which it is to be considered.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall examine the plat as to its compliance
with these regulations and the comprehensive plan of the community and shall
have 30 days in which to submit a recommendation to the City Council for its
consideration. In case of modification or disapproval, the Planning Commission
shall give its reasons.
      (4)   (a)   The City Council upon receiving the Commission’s
recommendation, or after 30 days or any extension thereof shall have passed,
shall by resolution grant approval or reject the preliminary plat.
         (b)   Approval of preliminary plat by the City Council shall
constitute approval to proceed with the preparation of the final plat but shall
not be deemed approval of the subdivision.
   (B)   Final plat. In obtaining approval for a proposed subdivision, the
subdivider shall submit a final plat showing and including the data specified
by §
151.035 and in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   A final plat shall be submitted within 12 months of the approval of
the preliminary plat, or the approval shall expire, and the preliminary plat
shall be resubmitted for approval prior to the preparation of the final plat.
      (2)   Procedures for final plat shall be the same as set out for the
preliminary plat.
      (3)   Upon approval of the final plat, a certification of approval signed
by the Mayor and attested by the County Clerk shall be affixed to the original
of the final plat, and copies of the same shall be filed with the City Clerk
and the Register of Deeds of the county, along with other certifications and
instruments as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 151.020)
§ 151.021 PLATS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Procedure for approval of preliminary and final plats of land within one
mile of the corporate limits shall be the same as set out in §
151.020, except that five copies of the plat shall be filed, and one copy
referred to the County Surveyor with a request for his or her recommendations
to be submitted to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall not
take action on the plat prior to receiving the recommendations of the County
Surveyor. If no recommendation is received by the Planning Commission within 30
days, the plat shall be deemed approved by the County Surveyor.
(Prior Code, § 151.021)
§ 151.022 SUBMISSION TO THE SCHOOL BOARD.
   Prior to any approval on the preliminary or final plats by the Planning
Commission and City Council, a copy of each preliminary or final plat shall be
submitted to the Board of Education for its consideration and recommendations.
The Board of Education shall within 30 days recommend in writing to the City
Council that the plat be approved or disapproved in whole or in part or with
changes as may be desirable. This recommendation shall be advisory, and failure
of the Board of Education to make written recommendation within 30 days shall
be construed as an approval of the proposal submitted.
(Prior Code, § 151.022)
§ 151.023 PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE.
   The City Council or the Planning Commission may request the professional
assistance as it deems necessary to properly evaluate the plats submitted.
(Prior Code, § 151.023)
PLAT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.035 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of one inch to 100
feet.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall be plainly marked “Preliminary Plat,” and
shall include, show, or be accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   A location map, showing the subdivision name, an outline of the
area to be subdivided, the existing streets and town utilities on adjoining
property, and the north point and scale;
      (2)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which must not be so similar
to that of an existing subdivision as to cause confusion;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owner and subdivider, and the
engineer, surveyor, or landscape architect responsible for the survey or
design;
      (4)   The legal description of the area being platted;
      (5)   The boundary line (accurate in scale) dimensions and location of
the property to be platted, and the location of monuments found or set, section
lines, and contours with the intervals of five feet or less, and the
approximate acreage of the property to be platted;
      (6)   A date, scale, and north point, and a key map showing the general
location of the proposed subdivision in relation to surrounding developments;
      (7)   Location of property lines and the width and location of platted
streets or alleys within or adjacent to the property; physical features of the
property, including location of water courses, ravines, bridges, culverts,
present structures, and other features affecting the subdivision; and the
location of all existing utilities with their sizes indicated. The outline of
wooded areas or the location of important individual trees may be required;
      (8)   The layout or location, numbers or names, and approximate
dimensions or widths of all proposed lots, of all building setback lines and
easements, and of all streets, alleys, and grounds proposed to be dedicated for
public use;
      (9)   The location and width of proposed streets, roads, lots, alleys,
sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, and other features and improvements
required by this chapter and their relation to streets and alleys in adjacent
subdivisions. If there are no adjacent subdivisions, then the key map shall
show the location and distance to the nearest subdivision and how the streets,
alleys, or highways in the subdivision offered for approval may connect with
those in the nearest subdivision;
      (10)   The existing zoning classification and proposed uses of land
within the proposed subdivision shall also be designated; and
      (11)   Written and signed statements explaining how and when the
subdivider proposes to provide and install all required sewers or other
disposal of sanitary wastes, pavement, sidewalks, drainage structures, and
other required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 151.040)
§ 151.036 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be legibly drawn at a scale of one inch to 100
feet.
   (B)   The final plat shall include, show, or be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded;
      (2)   The name or names of the owners and subdividers;
      (3)   A date, scale and north point, basis of bearings, and a key map
showing the general location of the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   The legal description of the area being platted in metes and bounds
by bearing and distance;
      (5)   Accurate distances and bearings of all boundary block and lot lines
of the subdivision, including all sections and U.S. survey and congressional
township lines;
      (6)   Centerlines of all proposed and adjoining streets with their right-
of-way width and names;
      (7)   Lines of all blocks and lots with systematic method of numbering to
identify all lots and blocks;
      (8)   All building setback lines and all easements provided for public
service, together with their dimensions and any limitations of the easements;
      (9)   Any and all dimensions necessary for accurate location of the
boundaries of the site to be developed and of all streets, alleys, lots,
easements, and dedicated areas. These dimensions shall be expressed in feet and
decimals;
      (10)   All radii, arcs, points of tangency, central angles, and lengths
of curves;
      (11)   All survey monuments and benchmarks, found or set, together with
their physical description;
      (12)   Certification by a surveyor or engineer to the effect that the
final plat represents a survey made by him or her, that the monuments shown,
found, or set are in the positions indicated, and that all necessary
information is correctly shown thereon;
      (13)   The accurate outline, dimensions, and purposes of all property
which is offered for dedication or is to be reserved for acquisition for public
use, or is to be reserved by deed or covenant for the common use of the
property owners in the subdivisions;
      (14)   An affidavit of ownership showing fee simple title and
encumbrances and liens and a certificate of dedication of all land intended for
public use, signed by the owner or owners, and all other parties who have a
mortgage or lien interest in the property;
      (15)   Construction drawings, profiles, cross-sections, and
specifications subject to certification and approval of the City Engineer; and
      (16)   Signature spaces for approval of the Commission Chairperson and
Secretary and also the City Engineer and authorized representative of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.041)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.050 CONFORMANCE TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   In subdividing property, consideration shall be given to suitable sites for
schools, parks, playgrounds, and other common areas for public use so as to
best conform with any recommendations of the comprehensive plan. Any provisions
for schools, parks, and playgrounds should be indicated on the preliminary plat
in order that it may be determined when and in what manner the areas will be
provided or acquired by an appropriate agency.
(Prior Code, § 151.060)
§ 151.051 CONFORMANCE TO STREET PLAN.
   (A)   Unless otherwise approved by the Commission and City Council,
provision must be made for the extension of major and collector streets as
shown on the street plan of the municipality, and local streets must provide
free circulation within the subdivision.
   (B)   The system of streets designated for the subdivision, except in
unusual cases, must align with streets already dedicated in adjacent
subdivisions, and where no adjacent connections are platted, must in general be
the reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivisions and must be
continued to the boundaries of the tract subdivided, so that other subdivisions
may connect therewith.
   (C)   Rights-of-way providing for the future opening and extension of the
streets as outlined herein may, at the discretion of the Commission, be made a
requirement of the plat.
   (D)   Off-center street intersections will not be approved except in unusual
cases.
   (E)   In general, streets shall be of a width at least as great as that of
the streets so continued or projected.
   (F)   Local streets shall be arranged so as to discourage through traffic.
(Prior Code, § 151.061)
§ 151.052 STREET CLASSIFICATION TABLE.
 
Classification        Right-of-Way (minimum Pavement Width  Grade (percent)
                      feet)                 (minimum feet)
Alleys, commercial or 20                    16
industrial
Alleys, residential   16                    16
Collector streets     60                    39              8
Minor residential     50                    25
streets
Residential streets   50                    25              10
Thoroughfare streets  70                    45              6
 
(Prior Code, § 151.062)
§ 151.053 CUL-DE-SACS; DEAD END STREETS.
   (A)   No dedication of a half-street will be permitted unless by special
approval of the City Council. If special approval is granted, the dedicated
half-street shall not be less than 33 feet in width, and whenever subdivided
property adjoins a half-street, the remainder of the street shall be dedicated.
   (B)   No dead end streets shall be approved unless the streets are provided
to connect with future streets in adjacent land and are dedicated to the
municipality.
   (C)   (1)   Cul-de-sacs may be permitted where the form or contour of the
land makes it difficult to plat with connected streets.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs shall provide proper access to all lots, shall not
exceed 500 feet in length, and shall be terminated with a turn-around having a
minimum right-of-way radius of 47.5 feet with a right-of-way of 110 feet.
(Prior Code, § 151.063)
§ 151.054 INTERSECTIONS AND JOGS.
   (A)   Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible,
and no intersection shall be at an angle between 80 degrees and 100 degrees.
   (B)   The intersecting right-of-way lines at all street intersections shall
be rounded by a minimum radius of 20 feet, unless a greater radius is required
by the City Council.
   (C)   Detailed designs of intersections may be required.
   (D)   Street jogs with centerline off-sets of 125 feet or less shall not be
permitted. Intersections of more than two streets at a point shall not be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 151.064)
§ 151.055 ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but shall be provided
in commercial and industrial districts.
(Prior Code, § 151.065)
§ 151.056 LOT ACCESS.
   Every lot within a subdivision shall front on a publicly dedicated street.
(Prior Code, § 151.066)
§ 151.057 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential blocks shall not be less than 600 feet nor more than 1,320
feet in length, except as the City Council considers necessary to secure
efficient use of land or to achieve desired features of the street system.
   (B)   Where deemed essential for circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, or other community facilities, the City Council
may require public crosswalks at locations other than the intersections. The
crosswalks shall have a minimum easement width of ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 151.067)
§ 151.058 MINIMUM LOT DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions and area for lots served by a public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the city’s zoning regulations.
   (B)   However, in no case shall the width be less than 60 feet, nor less
than 100 feet in depth, nor less than 6,000 square feet in area.
   (C)   Lots not served by public sewer shall not be less than 60 feet in
width, nor 100 feet in depth, nor 10,000 square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 151.068)
§ 151.059 EASEMENTS.
   Where there are no streets or alleys, easements of at least five feet in
width shall be provided on each side of all rear lot lines and along side lot
lines where necessary for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers,
gas, water and heat mains, or other utilities.
(Prior Code, § 151.069)
§ 151.060 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use is located in
whole or in part in a subdivision, the Planning Commission may require the
dedication or reservation of the area within the subdivision in those cases in
which the Planning Commission deems the requirements to be reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 151.070)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.075 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of
curves in streets, lot corners, and at the intermediate points as shall be
required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.076 WATER LINES.
   Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, the subdivider shall
connect with the water main and provide a water connection for each lot and
fire hydrants as approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.091) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.077 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sewer
system which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   The sewers shall extend to the subdivision boundaries as necessary to
provide for the extension of the sewers by adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 151.092) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.078 STORM DRAINS.
   The developer shall provide the subdivision with adequate drains, ditches,
culverts, complete bridges, storm sewers, intakes, and manholes to provide for
the collection and the removal of all surface waters, and these improvements
shall extend to the boundaries of the subdivision so as to provide for
extension by adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 151.093) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.079 SIDEWALKS.
   A four-foot wide concrete sidewalk shall be provided adjacent to each lot
frontage.
(Prior Code, § 151.094) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.080 GRADING.
   All streets and alleys within the platted area which are dedicated for
public use shall be brought to the grade approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.095) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.081 CURB AND GUTTER.
   Curb and gutter shall be installed on all roadways in the plat being
dedicated for public use and shall be constructed of portland cement concrete
in accordance with designs and specifications approved by the City Council and
at grades established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.096) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.082 SURFACING.
   All roadways being dedicated for public use shall be surfaced from curb to
curb. Surfacing shall be asphaltic material or portland cement concrete and
shall be constructed in accordance with designs and specifications approved by
the City Council at grades established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.097) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.083 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type of construction, the materials, and the methods and standards
of subdivision improvements shall be equal to the current specifications of the
municipality for like work.
   (B)   Plans and specifications shall be submitted to the City Council for
approval prior to construction and construction shall not be started until the
plans and specifications have been approved.
(Prior Code, § 151.098) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.084 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, may
require the installation of street lights, street signs, and street trees.
(Prior Code, § 151.099)
§ 151.085 MUNICIPAL CONTROL.
   No public improvements over which the City Council has control shall be made
with city funds, nor shall any city funds be expended for street maintenance,
street improvements, or other services in any area that has been subdivided
after the date of the adoption of these regulations unless the subdivision and
streets have been approved in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations and the street accepted by the City Council is a public street. The
subdivider shall construct and install the improvements described in this
chapter in accordance with the approved construction plan and specifications of
the City Council and to its satisfaction.
(Prior Code, § 151.100)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.100 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   After the City Council has adopted a street plan and filed the plan
with the Register of Deeds for the county, no building shall be erected on any
lot within the planning area which does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter. Further, a building may not be located within the planning area unless
and until the street which will serve as access to the lot is approved by the
City Council as a public street prior to the time of construction.
   (B)   Any building erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an
unlawful structure, and the inspector or other appropriate official may bring
action to enjoin the erection or cause it to be vacated or removed.
(Neb. RS 19-913) (Prior Code, § 151.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.101 FILING.
   No map, plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall be considered legally filed with the Register of Deeds for
the county unless and until the same shall have been approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.121)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-919
§ 151.102 FEES.
   Before a preliminary plan may be considered by the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall deposit with the City Treasurer a fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § 151.122)
§ 151.103 TRANSACTION BEFORE PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Whoever being the owner or agent of the owner of the land located
within the platting jurisdiction of the municipality knowingly or with intent
to defraud transfers, sells, agrees to sell, or negotiates to sell the land by
reference to, exhibition of, or by other use of a subdivision of the land,
before the plat has been approved by the City Council and recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county shall forfeit and pay a penalty
of not more than $50 for each lot so transferred, sold, agreed, or negotiated
to be sold.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument or transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt
the transaction from the penalties.
(Prior Code, § 151.123)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-426
CHAPTER 152: TRAILER CAMPS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Maintenance
   
152.04   Inspections
   
152.05   Liability of owner
   
152.06   Management
   
152.07   Revocation of permit
   
152.08   Prohibited location
   
152.09   Prohibited parking
   
152.10   Authorized camp
   
152.11   Alterations and additions
   
152.12   Water supply
   
152.13   Applicability of plumbing, electrical, and building codes
   
152.14   Permitted exceptions
   
152.15   Authorized exceptions
   
152.16   Temporary storage
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health as created in §
32.04 of this code.
   CAMPER. See TRAVEL TRAILER.
   CONVERTED BUS. See TRAVEL TRAILER.
   FIRE PREVENTION AUTHORITY. The Volunteer Fire Department.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the City Clerk, permitting the trailer
court to operate under this code and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley, or highway, located in the
municipality and established for the use of vehicles, the boundaries of which
are hereby determined to be the outer boundaries of the street, avenue, road,
or alley, as platted and dedicated as shown by the official records of the
municipality and the county as shown on the official records in the office of
the County Clerk as official streets, avenues, roads, or alleys within the
corporate limits.
   TRAILER or TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed in a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters
for one or more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation, or trade (or use as a selling or advertising device), and so
designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or municipal streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power, excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, camp, site, lot,
parcel, or tract of land designed, maintained, or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any trailer coach or trailer coaches
and upon which any trailer coach or trailer coaches are parked, including all
buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether a
charge is made for the use of the TRAILER CAMP and its facilities or not, but
not including automobile or trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are
parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   TRAILER COACH. See TRAILER.
   TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court, designated for the
accommodation of one trailer coach.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER, or CONVERTED BUS. Any portable structure or vehicle
supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such and constructed in a manner as will permit occupancy thereof
as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited or
temporary time or basically designed for travel or camping purposes, propelled
or drawn by its own or other motive power.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 152.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, operate,
or alter any trailer camp within the corporate limits unless the person holds a
valid permit, in the name of that person for the specific trailer camp. All
applications for permits shall be made to the County Clerk, who shall issue a
permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this code relative
to trailer camps.
   (B)   No permit shall be transferable.
   (C)   Every person holding a permit shall give notice in writing to the City
Clerk within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of any trailer court. The notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of the trailer court.
   (D)   Applications for permits shall be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the trailer court;
      (3)   A complete plan of the trailer court, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Any further information as may be requested by the Board of Health
to enable the Board to determine that the proposed trailer court will comply
with legal requirements.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 MAINTENANCE.
   All trailer camps shall be maintained under the management and supervision
of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the same is located
or of a duly authorized representative of the owner, who shall be personally
responsible for the maintenance of the trailer camp in accordance with all
sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the municipality and the
state.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 INSPECTIONS.
   All trailer camps shall be under the supervision of the Board of Health. The
Board shall make and provide for inspections of trailer camps at reasonable
times and shall recommend to the City Council additional rules and regulations
as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the sanitation, safety, and proper
maintenance of the trailer camps.
(Prior Code, § 113.04)
§ 152.05 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall be primarily liable for all utility
service bills charged against each trailer house and shall make monthly
remittances to the municipality for the bills.
(Prior Code, § 113.05)
§ 152.06 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   In every trailer camp there shall be an office building in which shall
be located the office of the person in charge of the camp. A copy of the camp
license shall be posted therein, and the camp register shall at all times be
kept in the office.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge,
together with the licensee to:
      (1)   Keep at all times a register of all occupants of each trailer
space, which shall be open at all times to inspection by officers of the
municipality, showing for all occupants:
         (a)   Names and addresses;
         (b)   Dates of entrance and departure;
         (c)   License numbers of all trailers and other towed automobiles; and
         (d)   States issuing the licenses.
      (2)   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly, and sanitary condition at
all times;
      (3)   Report to the Director of Health all cases of persons or animals
affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease; and
      (4)   Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants
than that which it is designated to accommodate.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to establish and maintain a trailer camp may be revoked by the City
Council for cause, at any time, for a violation of the provisions of this code
or of the rules and regulations relating to trailers, or for any other cause or
conduct, reasonably deemed by the City Council as sufficient cause of
revocation of the permit. Before the revocation of a permit, the municipality
shall cause to be served on the operator of the trailer camp a notice to appear
and show cause, on a specified day and at a specified time, why his or her
permit for the trailer camp should not be revoked. The notice to show cause may
be served by mailing the same in the U.S. mail to the address of the operator
given in his or her application for permit with sufficient postage affixed
thereto. The operator of the trailer camp involved shall be given reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the time fixed for the appearance to show cause, and
no permit for a trailer camp shall be revoked until the operator involved has
been heard at the designated time if the operator desires to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 113.07)
§ 152.08 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   After the effective date hereof, except as otherwise provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a trailer or trailer coach within the corporate
limits for purposes of using the trailers as a dwelling or sleeping place for
one or more persons or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or
trade, or use as a selling or advertising device, except in a designated and
approved trailer camp for which a permit has been issued and is currently
valid.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer coach, travel
trailer, camper, or converted bus on any official street, avenue, road, alley,
or highway within the corporate limits for a period of time in excess of two
hours, and then only between the hours of sunrise and sunset, and subject to
any other and further prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the
traffic and parking regulations and as any resolution of the City Council may
provide relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10 AUTHORIZED CAMP.
   (A)   Trailer camps shall be located on well-drained sites and shall be so
located that drainage will not endanger any water supply. All trailer courts
shall be in areas free from marshes, swamps, or other potential breeding places
for insects or rodents.
   (B)   The area of the trailer camp shall be large enough to accommodate the
following:
      (1)   The designated number of trailer court spaces;
      (2)   Necessary streets and roadways;
      (3)   Parking areas for motor vehicles; and
      (4)   Service areas and playgrounds for trailer camps in which
independent trailer coaches only are parked.
   (C)   The number of trailers to be accommodated in any trailer camp shall
not exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square foot area of the
trailer camp site by 2,600. Each trailer space shall be clearly defined and
shall be laid out in a manner that a minimum of 20 feet of space exists between
any two trailers or ten feet between any trailer and any building. No trailers
shall be less than five feet from any adjacent property of the trailer court.
Each trailer space shall abut on a driveway with unobstructed access to a
public street. No trailer camp shall be licensed unless the same is large
enough to accommodate a minimum of 15 trailers.
   (D)   It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than two feet from
any street or highway right-of-way or so that any part of the trailer will
obstruct any roadway or walkway.
   (E)   It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain while being
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes in a trailer camp unless a trailer
space is available.
   (F)   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer coach space. Each
access road shall be continuous, shall connect with a street or highway, and
shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   (G)   Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. The areas
shall have motor vehicle parking spaces in a number equal to or in excess of
the number of trailer coach spaces provided.
   (H)   Playground areas, when required, shall be provided and shall be
restricted to that use. These areas shall be protected from the main highway
and from parking areas. A minimum of 100 square feet per coach space shall be
made available in one or more places for the playground areas.
(Prior Code, § 113.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   No permanent enclosed additions of any kind shall be built onto nor
become a part of any trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but
skirting shall not attach the trailer permanently to the ground, provide a
harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
   (B)   The wheels of the trailer shall not be removed, except temporarily
when necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be placed under the frame
of the trailer to prevent movement on the springs while the trailer is parked
and occupied. Four anchors shall be provided for each trailer coach space. Each
trailer shall be anchored as soon as possible after location on space.
(Prior Code, § 113.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.12 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe distribution
system connected directly with a municipal water main, with supply outlets
located at every trailer space, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 113.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13 APPLICABILITY OF PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL, AND BUILDING CODES.
   All plumbing, electrical, building, and other work on or at any camp shall
be in accordance with the laws of the municipality regulating the work.
(Prior Code, § 113.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.14 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Trailers commonly referred to as “double-wide” or any other trailer
coach or coaches having a minimum outside width of 20 feet and containing 800
square feet or more of living space, when placed upon permanent foundation or
support, with axle, wheels, and towing apparatus removed, on premises owned or
leased by the owner of the trailer coach, when used as a residence or a trade
or business, shall be exempt and excepted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any trailer coach which qualified under the exceptions herein shall be
so located and placed in a manner that the same shall comply with the building
code and, further, shall comply and be so placed in a manner as to safeguard
the health and safety of the occupants of the trailer and of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 113.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.15 AUTHORIZED EXCEPTIONS.
   In addition to any trailer camp permit required by this chapter, the City
Council may, in its discretion, upon the written application of the owner of a
trailer and the owner of a vacant lot, they being one and the same person,
authorize the placing of a trailer upon the vacant lot within the municipality
when there is first filed with the City Clerk the written consent of persons
owning four-fifths of the property within 300 feet of the proposed location,
together with the written consent of all persons owning the lots and parts of
lots abutting or facing the site on which it is proposed to locate the trailer.
Any trailer while so placed on any lot shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system of the municipality and shall conform to the building setbacks of the
area on which it is located. A separate sewer connection shall be required for
each trailer so placed. Any trailer while so placed on any lot shall be
connected to a permanent foundation so as to become a permanent improvement on
the lot. The resting of any trailer on wheels, jacks, and skirting or any
combination thereof shall not be considered a permanent foundation. The minimum
dimensions of any aforesaid lot shall be in conformance with §
151.058. The trailer must be placed on its foundation and connected to the
sanitary sewer system within 30 days of issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 113.15) (Ord. 436, passed 11-7-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.16 TEMPORARY STORAGE.
   It shall be lawful for any person to store or otherwise keep on any premises
travel trailers or campers, propelled or drawn by their own or other motive
power, upon any area, provided that the trailer or camper be stored as near as
possible to the back of the premises. It further shall be lawful for any person
to keep and maintain a travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by its own
or other motive power, upon any premises to be used for occupancy as dwelling
or sleeping space for any period not to exceed two weeks in duration. Any
travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power,
so temporarily placed shall be placed upon the premises or portion thereof as
far away as possible from the street abutting the premises.
(Prior Code, § 113.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Adherence to regulations
   
153.05   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.07   Compliance
   
153.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.09   Interpretation
   
153.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.12   Amendments
   
153.13   Definitions
Floodplain Management Administration
   
153.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Permits required
   
153.27   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.28   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
153.29   Flood data required
   
153.30   Variance and appeals procedures
   
153.31   Conditions for variances
   
153.32   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
153.45   General provisions
   
153.46   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
153.47   Design and construction standards
   
153.48   Nonconforming use
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the state. The
legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further assigned
the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain management
regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction over the
floodprone area.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health, and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R. and the state’s Minimum
Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the State
Administrative Code Title 455, Ch. 1.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.05 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
city identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panel 31147C0175C dated
October 7, 2021 as Zone A and within the Zoning District established in §
153.11.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the floodplain administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community, and where specifically noted in §§
153.25 through
153.32 and
153.45 through
153.48.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.06 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the city’s
Planning Commission will resolve the dispute.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case to the city’s Planning Commission and to
submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.07 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway
and flood fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.11 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the floodplain overlay district, as identified in the
Flood Insurance Study dated October 7, 2021 and on accompanying FIRM panels as
established in §
153.05. The floodplain overlay district shall correspond to flood Zone A.
Within this district, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and
those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.12 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may, from time to time, be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed
to reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations;
provided, however, that no such action may be take until after a public hearing
in relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least 14 days
shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the State Department of
Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.13 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such FLOODING is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. Means STRUCTURE. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are
not limited to: facilities that produces, use, or store hazardous materials;
hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain vulnerable populations;
emergency support function facilities like police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities, and emergency operations centers;
public and private utility facilities vital to maintaining or restoring normal
services to flooded areas before, during, and after a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading,
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   DRAINWAY. Means WATERCOURSE. See definition for WATERCOURSE.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of FLOODING). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   OBSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property.
      (2)   Dams designed to store or divert water are not OBSTRUCTIONS if
permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the Department of
Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs Act, being Neb.
RS 46-1601 et seq. (Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated August 19, 1987, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated August 19, 1987, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued; provided, the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition
would equal or exceed 30% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred. Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred
within ten years preceding the date of the floodplain development permit.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or
exceeds 30% of the market value of the structure before start of construction
of the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred within ten years
preceding the date of the floodplain development permit and shall include any
costs resulting from substantial damage.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the community’s local floodplain
administrator. The floodplain administrator is authorized and directed to
administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of this chapter. If the local
floodplain administrator position is unfilled, the community CEO shall assume
the duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.26 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.27 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the City Clerk shall include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (E)   Coordinate with the State Department of Natural Resources to obtain
base flood elevation information when applicable and required;
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed;
   (J)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections, track
value of improvements and market value with permits, and ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
   (K)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this chapter; and
   (L)   In the event the floodplain administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the floodplain
administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.28 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the floodplain administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the floodplain administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the floodplain administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the City
Clerk shall be provided.
   (F)   Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, §§ 65.5 and 65.6 allow for
changes to the special flood hazard area through a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) or a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), provided the
community determines that the land and any existing or proposed structures that
would be removed from the floodplain are reasonably safe from flooding. The
community acknowledgment form asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-
F applications and must be signed by the floodplain administrator. The
floodplain administrator shall not sign a community acknowledgment form unless
all criteria set forth in the following paragraphs are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be “reasonably safe from flooding,” according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the simplified approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the engineered approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.29 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If flood insurance
study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the flood insurance
study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.30 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the district court as provided in Neb. RS
168.02 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-929 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Planning Commission shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.31 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing the provisions of divisions (E) through
(H) below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (G)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (H)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the failure of
a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   A structure or other development without a floodplain development
permit, elevation certificate, certification by a licensed professional
engineer of compliance with these regulations, or other evidence of compliance
is presumed to be in violation until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the floodplain administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the floodplain
administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.45 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the State Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (B)(2) below shall apply:
         (a)   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that
will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12)
prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the floodplain
administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.46 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above two feet above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential structures. 
      (1)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above two feet above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, floodproofed so that below two feet above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in §§
153.25 through
153.32.
   (C)   Critical facilities. New construction or substantial improvement of
any critical facility is prohibited in all areas of the floodplain and the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, unless all of the following provisions are met:
      (1)   No feasible alternative site exists for the construction of an
equivalent facility within the corporate or extraterritorial jurisdiction
boundaries of the city;
      (2)   The facility has the lowest floor, including basement, of all
structures elevated to one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so
that below one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water;
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of the subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in §§
153.25 through
153.32.
      (3)   If the 0.2% annual chance floodplain is not identified, the
facility shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to three
feet above the base flood elevation or be floodproofed to three feet above the
base flood elevation with the standards in this division (C)(2); and
      (4)   The facility has at least one access road connected to land outside
the 0.2% annual chance floodplain that is capable of carrying emergency support
vehicles and the top of the access road is no lower than the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation.
   (D)   Space below lowest floor. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall not have fully enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. The size of such enclosed areas shall not exceed 299 square
feet except for buildings where the minimum clearance height of the enclosed
area is less than seven feet. Designs for meeting this requirement must either
be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (E)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
may have the lowest floor below two feet above base flood elevation provided
that the structure complies with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 400 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated or floodproofed to two feet above base flood
elevation.
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home as incurred
substantial damage as the result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above
two feet above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(F)(1) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above two
feet above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)(4)
below.
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
153.47(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3) below
shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the ten-year cumulative costs of which
would equal or exceed 30% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute
a substantial improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of the
building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.47 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only
quickdisconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently
attached additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for Conditional Letters of Map Revision and a
Letters of Map Revision.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.48 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Clerk in writing of instances of nonconforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the ten-year cumulative cost
for reconstruction, rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure is
more than 30% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
except that if it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply
with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-21-2021)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE ZONING AND PLANNING
Section
   
154.01   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
   
154.02   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
comprehensive development plan for the city is hereby adopted by reference as
if set forth fully herein. Three copies of the adopted plan shall be kept on
file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 152.01)
§ 154.02 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community; to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the city are
hereby adopted by reference as if set forth fully herein. Three copies of the
adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 152.02)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING
      
III.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed  Description
R 2012-10.1     10-2-2012      Agreement with Nebraska Public Power District.
R 2018.11.20AMI 11-20-2018     Financing metering of a system project with AMI.
                               Granting a natural gas franchise to Black Hills
671             10-23-2023     Energy and the authority to construct, operate,
                               maintain, distribute, and utilize roadways
                               within present or future corporate limits.
                              
 
TABLE II: ZONING
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
R 2012-7.3    7-17-2012      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2012-10.1   11-6-2012      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2013-1.1    1-8-2013       Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2013-9.7    10-1-2013      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2017-6.20   6-20-2017      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2017-8.5    8-15-2017      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2017-9.9    9-19-2017      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 01-2018     1-2-2018       Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 6.19.2018A  6-19-2018      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 6.19.2018B  6-19-2018      Conveyance of tracts of land, creating
                             subdivision.
R 2019-1.22   1-22-2019      Selling airport property.
                            
 
TABLE III: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R 2015-10.1   10-20-2015  Adopting Nemaha Natural Resources District Multi-
                          jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan.
R -           3-15-2016   Approving the 2015 Richardson County Local Emergency
                          Operations Plan.
R 2017-9.19B  9-19-2017   Establishing operation of League Association of Risk
                          Management.
                         
 
TABLE IV: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed    Description
No.
                   Vacating part of the public way in Block 20, King’s Addition, and Block 20,
630   4-1-2014     Tinker and King’s Addition, and provides easement for public utilities and
                   cable television.
646   2-5-2019     Vacating the alley located between Lot 7 and Lot 8, metes and bounds, 3-2-13,
                   SW1/4 and reserves a public utilities easement.
                  
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites 2023 Code Section
Neb. RS Cites                   2023 Code Section
3-501 et seq.                   35.53
9-201 through 9-266             112.02
9-236                           112.01
9-601 et seq.                   35.01
10-101 through 10-143           35.12
10-606 through 10-612           35.12
11-101                          33.26
11-104                          33.25
11-105                          33.25
11-109                          33.25
11-110                          33.25
11-111                          33.25
11-112                          33.25
11-113                          33.25
11-114                          33.25
11-115                          33.25
11-116                          33.25
11-117                          33.25
11-118                          33.25
12-401 through 12-403           32.06,
                                91.01
12-403                          91.02
13-310                          95.36
13-311                          95.36
13-312                          95.36
13-313                          95.36
13-314                          95.36
13-403                          95.33
                                35.29,
13-501 et seq.                  35.31,
                                35.35
13-503                          35.01
13-504                          35.27
13-505                          35.27
13-506                          35.28,
                                35.29
13-507                          35.29
13-508                          35.30
13-509                          35.30
13-509.01                       35.27
13-509.02                       35.27
13-510                          35.33
13-511                          35.34
13-518 to 13-522                35.29,
                                35.30
13-518 through 13-522           35.30,
                                35.34
13-519                          34.04
13-606                          35.02
13-609                          35.14
13-801 et seq.                  35.53
13-903                          35.05
13-2003 through 13-2016.01      53.01
13-2501 et seq.                 35.53
13-2020                         53.08
16-318(3)                       31.04
16-691.01                       35.11
16-714 through 16-716           35.10
17-102                          30.03
17-103                          30.03
17-104                          30.15
17-105                          33.04
17-106                          33.04
                                30.01,
17-107                          30.03,
                                31.01
17-108                          33.40
                                30.02,
17-108.02                       30.15,
                                31.02
17-110 through 17-114           30.02
17-117                          30.02
17-119                          31.11
                                31.07,
17-121                          32.04,
                                94.01,
                                94.02
17-123                          53.03
17-129                          130.06
17-135                          111.02
17-142                          130.07,
                                150.15
17-147                          32.40
17-148                          30.16
                                52.01-
17-149                          52.02,
                                52.19
17-149.01                       52.03
17-150                          31.10
17-405                          31.10
17-426                          151.103
17-502                          11.01
17-503                          95.30
17-503.01                       95.30
17-503.02                       95.31
17-505                          10.99,
                                30.30
17-506                          35.50
17-507                          35.51
17-508                          96.16
17-509                          95.02
17-509 to 17-521                96.04
17-510 to 17-512                95.02
17-513 to 17-524                95.02
17-522                          96.04
17-524                          96.04
17-525                          110.06
                                98.01,
                                98.02,
17-526                          98.15,
                                98.20,
                                98.26,
                                98.27
17-531                          32.25
17-534                          32.25
                                51.02,
                                51.05,
17-537                          51.10,
                                51.11,
                                51.13-
                                51.16
17-538                          50.05
17-539                          51.12
17-540                          35.11,
                                51.08
17-541                          31.01
                                50.01,
17-542                          51.06-
                                51.09
17-547                          98.01,
                                98.02
17-548                          98.02,
                                98.29
                                92.01,
                                92.27,
17-549                          92.35,
                                92.50,
                                92.51
17-550                          92.32,
                                92.31
                                95.04,
                                94.15,
17-555                          94.18,
                                95.04,
                                130.07
                                92.34,
17-556                          92.35,
                                130.04,
                                130.06
                                95.05,
17-557                          96.27,
                                130.07
17-557.01                       95.05
17-558                          96.18,
                                96.19
17-559                          96.18,
                                96.19
                                94.15,
17-563                          94.16,
                                130.03
17-567                          95.03,
                                96.15
17-568                          31.10
17-568.01                       31.10,
                                35.03
17-568.02                       35.03
17-574                          32.26
17-575                          52.03
17-602                          34.03
                                31.01,
17-604                          31.13,
                                33.25,
                                33.40
17-605                          31.03
17-606                          31.04
17-606(2)                       31.04
17-606 through 17-609           31.05
17-607                          35.09
17-608                          35.11
17-609                          35.11
17-610                          31.06
17-611                          33.40
17-612                          33.40
                                30.33,
17-613                          30.35-
                                30.37,
                                35.03
                                10.15,
17-614                          30.33,
                                30.34,
                                30.38
17-615                          30.36
17-616                          30.34
17-701                          35.25
17-702                          35.08,
                                35.54
17-703                          35.06
17-706                          35.31
17-708                          35.04
17-709                          35.04
17-710                          35.07
17-711                          35.04
17-714                          35.05
17-715                          35.05
17-718                          32.40
17-720                          35.10
17-803                          35.11
17-901                          52.02
17-902                          52.02
17-919                          31.10
                                32.26,
17-925.01                       50.01,
                                50.05,
                                52.11
17-925.02                       52.09,
                                52.10
17-941                          91.03
17-948                          90.01
17-948 through 17-952           90.01,
                                90.20
17-949                          90.01,
                                90.22
17-951                          90.01
17-952                          32.05,
                                90.01
                                90.61,
17-953                          90.62,
                                95.32
17-953 et seq.                  32.40
17-953 through 17-955           90.60
17-953.01                       95.32
17-954                          90.60,
                                95.32
17-966                          32.07
17-1001                         92.51,
                                94.17
17-1002                         151.002
17-1003                         151.003
18-131                          30.35
                                30.30,
18-132                          92.25,
                                92.26
18-305 through 18-312           33.41
18-412.01                       35.03
                                50.05,
18-503                          52.04-
                                52.07,
                                52.10
18-1001 through 18-1006         95.30
18-1208                         110.06
18-1214                         35.56
18-1216                         35.06
18-1701                         31.03
18-1705                         96.16
                                10.99,
                                53.02,
                                92.51,
                                94.15-
18-1720                         94.18,
                                94.30,
                                110.20,
                                150.33-
                                150.36
                                10.99,
18-1722                         150.33-
                                150.36
18-1722.01                      150.33-
                                150.36
18-1729                         72.46
18-1736                         72.25,
                                72.26
                                72.26,
18-1737                         72.27,
                                72.33
18-1743                         150.03
18-1748                         96.22
18-1751                         95.02
18-1755                         95.34
18-1756                         35.03
18-1801 through 18-1805         35.12
18-2001 through 18-2004         96.17
18-2003                         96.17
18-2005                         96.16
18-2101 et seq.                 32.10,
                                35.53
18-2101 to 18-2144              32.10
                                35.25,
18-2801 et seq.                 35.28,
                                35.35
18-2803                         35.35
18-2804                         35.02,
                                35.35
18-2805                         35.35
18-2806                         35.35
18-2807                         35.35
18-2808                         35.35
19-613                          30.15
19-901                          32.03
19-901 et seq.                  32.03
19-901 to 19-914                32.03
19-901 to 19-915                32.03
19-901 through 19-933           92.25,
                                92.26
19-903 to 19-904.01             32.03
19-904                          151.007
19-905                          151.007
19-907                          32.02
19-908                          32.02,
                                32.03
19-909                          32.03
19-910                          32.03
19-912                          32.03
19-912.01                       32.03
19-913                          151.100
19-914                          151.005
19-915                          30.38
19-919                          151.101
19-922                          30.30
19-924 through 19-929           32.02
19-929                          32.02,
                                153.30
19-929(3)                       32.03
19-1101                         31.04,
                                31.05
19-1102                         31.03
                                31.03,
19-1103                         31.04,
                                31.05
19-1301                         35.08
19-1302                         35.08
19-1303                         35.08
19-1304                         35.08
19-1305                         32.25
19-1309                         35.52
19-1310                         35.52
19-1311                         35.52
19-1312                         35.52
19-2101 through 19-2106         53.20
19-2401                         95.02
19-2408 to 19-2415              95.02
19-2408 to 19-2431              95.02
19-2416                         96.16
19-2417 through 19-2419         96.04
19-2428 through 19-2431         95.02
                                51.03,
19-2701                         52.01,
                                52.02,
                                52.19
19-2902                         35.02
19-2903                         35.02
19-2904                         35.02
19-2905                         35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909         35.02
19-3101                         30.19
19-3301 et seq.                 35.53
19-3701                         30.37
19-3801                         31.08
19-4301                         111.05
20-132                          90.22,
                                90.61
20-203                          98.22
23-114.02                       32.03
23-122                          31.03
25-505.01                       34.10
25-1801                         50.04
25-2703                         30.30
25-21,275                       50.04
25-21,276                       50.04
25-21,277                       50.04
25-21,278                       50.04
Ch. 28, Art. 3                  111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 4                  111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 7                  111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 8                  111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 10                 111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 11                 111.22
Ch. 28, Art. 12                 111.22
28-431                          130.08
28-515.02                       50.03
28-519                          91.06,
                                92.03
28-520                          98.22
28-521                          98.22
28-523                          90.02
28-907                          92.09
                                92.02,
28-908                          92.04,
                                92.06,
                                92.10
28-1008                         98.04,
                                98.25
28-1009                         98.04,
                                98.25
28-1012                         98.04
                                94.18,
28-1321                         94.30,
                                130.02
28-1322                         130.01
29-422                          70.07
29-422 to 29-429                98.04
29-424                          70.07
29-4001 et seq.                 130.11
29-4003                         130.11
29-4013                         130.11
29-4015 et seq.                 130.11
31-1001 to 31-1023              153.01
                                30.01,
                                30.15,
                                34.01,
32-101                          34.04,
                                34.06,
                                35.08,
                                35.53
32-109                          30.02,
                                30.15
32-110                          34.03
32-115                          34.03
32-404                          34.01,
                                34.05
32-405                          34.04
32-533                          30.01,
                                30.15
32-552                          30.15
32-554                          30.03,
                                30.15
32-556                          34.01
32-557                          30.03,
                                34.06
32-559                          34.04
                                30.03,
32-560                          30.18,
                                30.19
32-560 through 32-572           30.03,
                                30.18
32-561                          30.03,
                                30.18
32-562                          34.10
32-567 to 32-570                34.10
32-568                          30.03,
                                30.18
32-569                          30.18
32-603                          30.02,
                                30.15
32-604                          30.02,
                                30.15
32-606                          34.07
32-607                          34.07
32-608                          34.08,
                                34.09
32-615                          34.09
32-616 through 32-618           34.09
32-621                          34.09
32-622                          34.07
32-625                          34.07
32-625(2)                       34.09
32-627                          34.07,
                                34.09
32-628                          34.09,
                                95.30
32-628 through 32-631           35.53
32-629                          34.09,
                                34.10
32-630                          34.09,
                                34.10
32-710                          34.09
32-802                          34.02,
                                35.53
32-918                          34.11
32-952 through 32-959           34.03
32-1202                         34.04
32-1301                         34.10
32-1302                         34.10
32-1303                         34.10
32-1304                         34.10
32-1305                         34.10
32-1306                         34.10
32-1307                         34.10
                                30.03,
32-1308                         30.18,
                                34.10
32-1309                         34.10
32-1524                         34.11
32-1525                         34.11
33-139.01                       32.42
33-141                          31.04
35-102                          32.42
35-103                          32.42
35-106                          110.02,
                                110.06
35-108                          32.42
35-520                          92.09
39-301                          130.07
39-302                          130.07
45-601 et seq.                  35.13
45-623                          35.13
46-1212                         95.35
46-1601 et seq.                 153.13
46-1601 to 46-1670              153.13
48-115                          32.42
48-1503                         35.03
49-801(16)                      10.05
49-1408                         33.41
49-1425                         33.41
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103    33.41
49-1499.04                      33.41
49-14,102                       33.41
49-14,103                       33.41
49-14,103.01                    33.41
49-14,103.02                    33.41
49-14,103.03                    33.41
49-14,103.04                    33.41
49-14,103.05                    33.41
49-14,103.06                    33.41
51-201                          35.53,
                                90.35
51-201 through 51-219           90.36
51-201.01                       90.41
51-202                          32.01
51-205                          90.36
51-206                          90.39
51-207                          90.36
51-209                          90.35
51-210                          90.37
                                90.36,
51-211                          90.41,
                                90.42
51-212                          90.41
51-213                          90.43
51-214                          90.44
51-215                          35.08,
                                90.45
51-216                          35.08,
                                90.38
51-501                          35.53
                                111.03,
                                111.06,
                                111.20,
                                111.21,
                                111.22,
53-101 et seq.                  111.23,
                                111.24,
                                111.27,
                                111.28,
                                111.29,
                                111.30
53-103.01 through 53-103.42     111.01
53-116.01                       111.24
53-118                          111.47
53-123.04(3)                    111.06
53-123.11(1)(c)                 111.06
53-124                          111.23,
                                111.26
53-124(6)                       111.48
53-124.01                       111.23
53-124.12                       111.26
53-124.15                       111.45
53-125                          111.22
53-131                          111.23
53-132                          110.06,
                                111.23
53-133                          111.23,
                                111.45
53-134                          111.23
                                111.23,
53-134.03                       111.47,
                                111.51
53-134.04                       111.30
53-135                          111.25
53-135.01                       111.23,
                                111.25
53-148                          111.27
53-160                          110.06
53-167.02                       111.52
53-167.03                       111.52
53-168.06                       111.20
53-175                          111.21
53-177                          111.45
53-177.01                       111.45
53-178                          111.46
53-179                          111.48
53-180                          111.02
53-183                          111.49
53-184                          111.50
53-186                          111.03
53-186(2)                       111.03
53-186.01                       111.03
53-194.03                       111.21
53-1,101                        111.28
53-1,102                        111.29
53-1,115                        111.30
53-1,121                        111.04
54-601                          98.27
54-602                          98.27
54-603                          98.15,
                                98.16
54-605                          98.20
54-606                          98.18,
                                98.27
54-607                          98.01
54-617                          98.22
54-618                          98.22
54-619                          98.22
54-620                          98.22
54-621                          98.22
54-624                          98.23
55-133                          Ch. 70
Ch. 60, Art. 1                  73.15 
Ch. 60, Art. 3                  73.15
Ch. 60, Art. 4                  73.15
Ch. 60, Art. 5                  73.15
Ch. 60, Art. 6                  73.17
Ch. 60, Art. 17                 73.15
60-101 et seq.                  35.56
60-169                          130.08
60-301                          35.56,
                                130.08
                                72.25,
                                72.26,
                                72.27,
                                72.28,
60-331                          72.29,
                                72.30,
                                72.31,
                                72.32,
                                72.34
60-376                          130.08
60-601                          Ch. 70
60-606 through 60-676           70.01
60-607                          70.01
60-610                          70.01
60-613                          70.01
60-624                          70.01
60-631                          70.01
60-637                          73.15
60-638                          70.01
60-646                          70.01
60-654                          70.01
60-656                          70.01
60-658.01                       70.01,
                                71.40
60-661                          70.01
60-669                          70.01
60-670                          70.01
60-671                          70.01
60-672                          70.01
60-676                          70.01
60-680                          Ch. 72,
                                71.05
60-681                          70.04,
                                71.01
60-682                          70.99
60-682.01                       71.40
60-684 through 60-694.01        70.99
60-689                          70.99
60-969                          73.37
60-1803                         35.56
60-1901 through 60-1903         130.08
60-1903                         130.08
60-1903.01                      130.08
60-1904 through 60-1909         130.08 
60-1911                         130.08
60-3,113                        72.26,
                                72.27
60-6,114                        72.13
60-6,118                        70.01
60-6,119 through 60-6,121       71.04
60-6,134.01                     71.40,
                                71.41
60-6,142                        73.01
60-6,165                        72.45
60-6,166                        72.06,
                                92.05
60-6,167                        Ch. 72
60-6,183                        92.08
60-6,184                        92.07
60-6,185                        71.20
60-6,186                        71.20
60-6,190                        71.20,
                                71.21
60-6,211.08                     111.03,
                                111.06
60-6,279                        73.36
60-6,280                        73.36
60-6,309                        73.15
60-6,310                        73.16
60-6,311                        73.17
60-6,313(1) through 60-6,313(4) 73.19
60-6,315                        73.01
60-6,316                        73.01
60-6,317                        73.01
60-6,318                        73.01
60-6,319                        73.01
60-6,312(1)                     73.18
60-6,312(2) through 60-6,312(4) 73.18
60-6,312(5)                     73.20
60-6,312(6)                     73.20
60-6,313(5)                     73.18
60-6,313(6)                     73.19
60-6,313(7)                     73.17
66-489                          110.06
66-489.02                       110.06
66-1801 et seq.                 54.01
66-1854                         54.01
66-4,140                        110.06
66-4,145                        110.06
66-4,146                        110.06
70-624.04                       33.41
70-1601 through 70-1615         50.03
70-1602                         50.02
70-1605                         50.02
70-1606                         50.02
70-1607                         50.02
70-1608 through 70-1614         50.02
70-1615                         50.02
71-15, 141                      32.08
71-423                          111.04
71-605                          91.05
71-1572 et seq.                 32.08
71-1637                         35.53
71-1576                         32.08
71-1908 et seq.                 130.11
71-4406                         98.30
71-4408                         98.02,
                                98.29
71-4603                         130.08
72-1201 et seq.                 35.11
72-1261 et seq.                 35.11
Ch. 72, Art. 14                 95.32
73-101 et seq.                  35.03
76-704 through 76-724           90.37
77-1601                         35.54
77-1601.02                      35.55
77-1606                         35.53,
                                35.55
77-1702                         35.14
77-1725.01                      150.34,
                                150.35
77-2201                         31.04
77-2201 through 77-2215         31.04
77-2202                         31.04
77-2209                         31.04
77-2210                         31.04 
77-2212                         31.04
77-2337                         35.08
77-2341                         35.11
77-2362                         35.08,
                                35.09
77-2363                         35.09
77-2364                         35.09
77-2365.01                      35.09,
                                35.10
77-2366                         35.09,
                                35.10
77-2386                         35.09
77-2386 et seq.                 35.09
77-2602                         110.06
77-2704.24                      110.06
                                35.53,
77-3442                         90.01,
                                90.35
77-3443                         35.53,
                                90.35
77-3444                         34.04,
                                35.53
77-4008                         110.06
80-202                          35.53
Ch. 81, Art. 8                  31.13
81-145 through 81-162           35.03
81-502                          92.25,
                                92.26
81-506                          32.46
81-512                          92.28
81-520.01                       92.35,
                                92.36
81-829.46                       31.13
81-829.51                       35.34
81-1438                         31.01
81-3423                         95.35
81-3445                         95.35
81-3449                         95.35
81-3453                         95.34,
                                95.35
84-712 through 84-712.09        31.03,
                                31.04
84-712(2)                       31.03
84-1201 et seq.                 31.03
84-1201 through 84-1220         31.03
                                33.02,
84-1407 et seq.                 33.08,
                                33.09
84-1409                         33.01
84-1410                         33.07,
                                33.08
                                33.03,
84-1411                         33.05,
                                33.06
84-1412                         33.09
84-1413                         33.11,
                                33.13
81-3401 et seq.                 95.35
168.02                          153.30
86-704                          110.06
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
10.99      10.99
11.01      11.01
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.49      30.34
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.04      31.04
31.05      31.05
31.07      31.07
31.08      31.08
31.11      31.11
31.12      31.12
31.13      31.13
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.04      32.04
32.06      32.06
32.07      32.07
32.08      32.08
32.09      32.09
32.10      32.10
32.11      32.11
32.30      32.25
32.31      32.26
33.01      33.01
33.02      33.02
33.03      33.03
33.04      33.04
33.05      33.05
33.07      33.07
33.09      33.09
33.11      33.11
33.13      33.13
33.30      33.25
33.46      33.41
34.07      34.07
34.09      34.09
34.10      34.10
35.01      35.01
35.03      35.03
35.26      35.26
35.27      35.27
35.28      35.28
35.30      35.30
35.48      35.53
35.50      35.55
35.51      35.56
50.01      50.01
51.01      51.01
51.02      51.02
51.03      51.03
51.04      51.04
51.05      51.05
51.06      51.06
51.07      51.07
51.08      51.08
51.09      51.09
51.10      51.10
51.11      51.11
51.12      51.12
51.13      51.13
51.14      51.14
51.15      51.15
51.16      51.16
51.17      51.17
51.18      51.18
51.19      51.19
51.20      51.20
52.01      52.01
52.02      52.02
52.03      52.03
52.04      52.04
52.05      52.05
52.06      52.06
52.07      52.07
52.08      52.08
52.09      52.09
52.10      52.10
52.11      52.11
52.12      52.12
52.13      52.13
52.14      52.14
52.15      52.15
52.16      52.16
52.17      52.17
52.18      52.18
52.19      52.19
53.01      53.01
53.02      53.02
53.03      53.03
53.04      53.04
53.05      53.05
53.06      53.06
53.07      53.07
53.08      53.08
53.20      53.20
53.21      53.21
53.22      53.22
54.01      54.01
70.02      70.02
70.03      70.03
70.06      70.06
70.07      70.07
71.01      71.01
71.02      71.02
71.03      71.03
71.04      71.04
71.05      71.05
71.06      71.06
71.20      71.20
71.20      Ch. 74, Schd. I
71.21      71.21
71.22      71.22
71.40      71.40
71.41      71.41
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.03      72.03
72.06      72.06
72.08      72.08
72.09      72.09
72.12      72.12
72.13      72.13
72.30      72.25
72.31      72.26
72.32      72.27
72.33      72.28
72.34      72.29
72.35      72.30
72.36      72.31
72.37      72.32
72.38      72.33
72.39      72.34
72.61      72.46
73.01      73.01
73.15      73.15
73.16      73.16
73.17      73.17
73.18      73.18
73.19      73.19
73.20      73.20
90.20      90.20
90.21      90.21
90.22      90.22
90.23      90.23
90.41      90.36
90.42      90.37
90.60      90.60
90.61      90.61
90.62      90.62
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05
91.06      91.06
91.07      91.07
92.01      92.01
92.02      92.02
92.03      92.03
92.04      92.04
92.05      92.05
92.06      92.06
92.07      92.07
92.08      92.08
92.09      92.09
92.10      92.10
92.30      92.25
92.31      92.26
92.32      92.27
92.33      92.28
92.34      92.29
92.35      92.30
92.36      92.31
92.37      92.32
92.38      92.33
92.39      92.34
92.40      92.35
92.41      92.36
92.60      92.50
92.61      92.51
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.03      93.03
93.04      93.04
93.05      93.05
93.06      93.06
93.07      93.07
93.08      93.08
94.20      94.15
94.21      94.16
94.22      94.17
94.23      94.18
94.40      94.30
95.013     95.13
95.035     95.35
95.090     97.01
95.091     97.02
95.092     97.03
95.093     97.04
95.094     97.05
95.095     97.06
95.096     97.07
95.097     97.08
95.098     97.09
95.099     97.10
95.100     97.11
95.101     97.12
95.102     97.13
95.103     97.14
95.104     97.15
95.105     97.16
96.03      98.03
96.20      98.15
96.22      98.16
96.23      98.17
96.24      98.18
96.25      98.19
96.26      98.20
96.27      98.21
96.28      98.22
96.29      98.23
96.30      98.25
96.31      98.26
96.34      98.29
96.35      98.30
96.36      98.31
96.37      98.32
96.38      98.33
96.39      98.34
96.50      98.04
96.51      98.04
96.52      98.04
110.01     110.01
110.02     110.02
110.30     110.20
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.06
111.23     111.23
111.45     111.45
111.48     111.48
111.49     111.49
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
113.01     152.01
113.02     152.02
113.03     152.03
113.04     152.04
113.05     152.05
113.06     152.06
113.07     152.07
113.08     152.08
113.09     152.09
113.10     152.10
113.11     152.11
113.12     152.12
113.13     152.13
113.14     152.14
113.15     152.15
113.16     152.16
130.03     130.03
130.08     130.08
130.09     130.09
130.10     130.10
130.11     130.11
130.12     130.12
131.01     131.01
131.02     131.02
131.03     131.03
131.04     131.04
131.05     131.05
131.06     131.06
131.99     131.99
150.01     150.01
150.35     150.30
150.36     150.31
150.37     150.32
150.38     150.33
150.39     150.34
150.40     150.35
151.001    151.001
151.002    151.002
151.003    151.003
151.004    151.004
151.005    151.005
151.006    151.006
151.007    151.007
151.008    151.008
151.009    151.009
151.020    151.020
151.021    151.021
151.022    151.022
151.023    151.023
151.040    151.035
151.041    151.036
151.060    151.050
151.061    151.051
151.062    151.052
151.063    151.053
151.064    151.054
151.065    151.055
151.066    151.056
151.067    151.057
151.068    151.058
151.069    151.059
151.070    151.060
151.090    151.075
151.091    151.076
151.092    151.077
151.093    151.078
151.094    151.079
151.095    151.080
151.096    151.081
151.097    151.082
151.098    151.083
151.099    151.084
151.100    151.085
151.120    151.100
151.121    151.101
151.122    151.102
151.123    151.103
151.123    151.103
152.01     154.01
152.02     154.02
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed 2023 Code Section
Res. No.      Date Passed 2023 Code Section
-             4-17-2012   36.01
2012-7.3      7-17-2012   TSO Table II
2012-10.1     10-2-2012   TSO Table I
2012-10.1     11-6-2012   TSO Table II
2013-1.1      1-8-2013    TSO Table II
2013-9.7      10-1-2013   TSO Table II
2013-9.8      10-1-2013   Ch. 75, Sched. I
2015-10.1     10-20-2015  TSO Table III
-             3-15-2016   TSO Table III
2017-6.20     6-20-2017   TSO Table II
2017-8.5      8-15-2017   TSO Table II
2017-9.9      9-19-2017   TSO Table II
2017-9.19B    9-19-2017   TSO Table III
01-2018       1-2-2018    TSO Table II
6.19.2018B    6-19-2018   TSO Table II
6.19.2018A    6-19-2018   TSO Table II
2018.11.20AMI 11-20-2018  TSO Table I
2019-1.22     1-22-2019   TSO Table II
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2023 Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed 2023 Code Section
                     94.15,
631      - -         94.17,
                     94.18
358      4-2-1974    72.46
374      9-4-1975    130.10
401      7-5-1977    110.01
405      10-18-1977  32.04
406      10-18-1977  31.01
407      10-18-1977  31.03
                     33.01-
                     33.03,
                     33.05,
409      10-18-1977  33.07,
                     33.09,
                     33.11,
                     33.13
417      10-18-1977  32.01
427      11-15-1977  92.35
431      5-2-1978    32.09
432      5-16-1978   51.17
                     52.13,
434      7-18-1978   52.14,
                     52.16
439      9-10-1978   32.02
436      11-7-1978   152.15
442      2-6-1979    97.01-
                     97.16
443      6-19-1979   52.17
451      12-4-1979   73.15-
                     73.20
471      6-21-1983   110.01
474      9-6-1983    71.21
479      2-7-1984    95.13
485      11-6-1984   31.02
489      11-6-1984   33.41
498      4-16-1985   93.01-
                     93.08
514      12-19-1989  98.22,
                     98.23
519      12-19-1989  53.03-
                     53.07
524      5-21-1991   98.31-
                     98.33
525      5-21-1991   71.20,
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
533      10-5-1992   98.34
534      2-1-1993    52.10
535      2-1-1993    72.46
536      3-15-1993   51.18
537      4-19-1993   71.20,
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
538      4-19-1993   51.19
543      12-18-1995  TSO Table III
546      10-7-1996   TSO Table II
552      6-15-1999   72.02
554      9-7-1999    98.03
558      - -2000     130.12
557      6-20-2000   51.20
561      8-1-2000    95.35
564      8-1-2000    35.53
565      8-1-2000    35.55
562      9-5-2000    32.08
563      9-5-2000    35.26
566      6-5-2001    TSO Table I
567      7-30-2001   54.01
568      11-6-2001   71.06
569      5-8-2002    32.10
573      1-4-2005    71.05
574      4-5-2005    98.15,
                     98.29
575      5-3-2005    51.08
576      7-5-2005    33.04
577      12-6-2005   130.09
578      6-6-2006    130.11
580      12-4-2007   TSO Table II
                     131.01-
582      5-6-2008    131.06,
                     131.99
584      9-2-2008    93.03
585      9-16-2008   98.34
586      10-7-2008   52.10
588      4-21-2009   98.34
589      7-6-2010    90.60-
                     90.62
590      7-6-2010    32.11
591      10-5-2010   111.48
595      1-17-2012   51.08
597      7-17-2012   111.06
598      7-17-2012   92.36
599      7-17-2012   95.35
600      7-17-2012   30.01
601      7-17-2012   35.56
602      7-17-2012   35.03
603      7-17-2012   34.10
604      7-17-2012   34.09
605      7-17-2012   34.07
607      7-17-2012   31.01
608      7-17-2012   111.03
609      7-17-2012   111.23
610      7-17-2012   111.49
611      7-17-2012   111.02
                     94.15,
613      3-19-2013   94.17,
                     94.18
614      8-6-2013    90.36,
                     90.37
615      8-6-2013    110.06
616      8-6-2013    98.04
617      8-20-2013   111.48
617      2-18-2014   TSO Table I
618      2-18-2014   33.25
619      2-18-2014   35.28
620      2-18-2014   35.01
621      2-18-2014   35.27
623      2-18-2014   35.30
624      2-18-2014   31.03
625      2-18-2014   30.02
626      2-18-2014   130.03
627      2-18-2014   30.34
628      2-18-2014   31.04
630      4-1-2014    TSO Table IV
631      4-7-2015    111.48
632      4-7-2015    110.06
633      4-7-2015    130.08
635      4-7-2015    111.49
634      1-3-2016    150.01
614      7-19-2016   98.03
636      3-21-2017   Ch. 75, Sched. II
642      10-2-2018   90.03
643      12-4-2018   98.15
644      12-4-2018   72.12
645      2-5-2019    51.08
646      2-5-2019    TSO Table IV
647      3-21-2019   31.02
                     31.14,
                     94.16-
648      10-22-2019  94.18,
                     150.30-
                     150.35
649      9-8-2020    130.13
650      11-17-2020  73.35-
                     73.38
651      1-5-2021    150.65,
                     150.66
655      7-6-2021    90.03
657      8-26-2021   33.02
                     153.01-
                     153.13,
                     153.25-
658      9-21-2021   153.32,
                     153.45-
                     153.48,
                     153.99
660      11-2-2021   11.02
663      10-18-2022  36.01
665      2-21-2023   33.04
666      3-7-2023    33.55
667      6-5-2023    150.66
670      9-18-2023   36.01
671      10-23-2023  TSO Table I
674      3-18-2024   33.04
675      5-7-2024    32.07
681      4-15-2025   130.14
682      4-15-2025   130.15
683      5-21-2025   90.03
                    
 
