KENESAW, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 554-2023, passed 2-14-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 544-2022
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF KENESAW, NEBRASKA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF KENESAW, KENESAW, NEBRASKA DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Kenesaw, Nebraska are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient
in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Nebraska empower and
authorize the Board of Trustees of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska to revise,
amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska of a general and permanent nature and
publication of such ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRMAN AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF KENESAW, NEBRASKA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Kenesaw”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles: Chapter 1; Administrative, Chapter 2: Commissions and
Boards, Chapter 3: Departments, Chapter 4: Health and Sanitation, Chapter 5:
Traffic Regulations, Chapter 6: Police Regulations, Chapter 7: Fire
Regulations, Chapter 8: Public Ways and Property, Chapter 9: Building
Regulations, Chapter 10: Business Regulations, Chapter 11: Municipal Planning
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
2023 S-1   1
2   Kenesaw - Adopting Ordinance
         of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or
dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets
or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or
covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Trustees and the Clerk of the Village of Kenesaw,
Nebraska is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees for the Village of Kenesaw,
Nebraska on this 12th day of April, 2022.
(Seal)
/s/ Sarah Kroos
Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Shelley Dick
Village Clerk
Certification
I, Shelley Dick , Clerk of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska, hereby certify
that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of Ordinance No. 544-2022,
passed by the Village Board this 12th day of April, 2022.
/s/ Shelley Dick
Village Clerk
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Article
      
1.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
2.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
3.   BONDS AND OATH
      
4.   CORPORATE SEAL
      
5.   MEETINGS
      
6.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
      
7.   ELECTIONS
      
8.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
9.   COMPENSATION
      
10.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-101   Village Board Chairperson; selection and duties
   
1-102   Village Board; organization
   
1-103   Village Board; powers
   
1-104   Elected officials; vacancy
§ 1-101 VILLAGE BOARD CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
    The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its
own membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily, who shall hold the
title of Chairperson Pro Tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and
the Chairperson Pro Tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the state, and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 235, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210
§ 1-102 VILLAGE BOARD; ORGANIZATION.
    The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of his
or her election, and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire
and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States,
and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, and faithfully and impartially
discharge the duties of their office. All Trustees elected to office shall
qualify and meet at the first regular meeting of the Board in December,
organize, and appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 236, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-204
§ 1-103 VILLAGE BOARD; POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for
licensing and regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to
prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and
regulate markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate
wharves and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to
provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale
in the village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in
addition to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the
peace, good government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise such power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 1-103) (Ord. 340, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 18-1720
§ 1-104 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in section Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-
561.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the Board
or place the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The
regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent, or
within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been
presented. The Board shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority votes in
favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee
fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and
the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name
of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Chairperson shall
continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination, and the Board shall continue to vote upon such nominations until
the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present shall cast a ballot for or against
the nominee. Any member of the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
on the Board shall have the same rights, including voting, as if such person
were elected.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in divisions (B) and (C) above,
call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to
fill such vacancies, except that the Board of Trustees of a village situated in
more than one county shall have power to fill by appointment any vacancy that
may occur in its number.
   (F)   No official who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 139, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 188, passed 5-7-1991;
Ord. 314, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572, 32-1308
ARTICLE 2: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1-201   Appointment; removal
   
1-202   Merger of offices
   
1-203   Municipal and Assistant/Deputy Clerk
   
1-204   Village Treasurer
   
1-205   Municipal Attorney
   
1-206   Village Marshal
   
1-207   Municipal Fire Chief
   
1-208   Special engineer
   
1-209   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
1-210   Zoning Inspector
§ 1-201 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The governing body may appoint a Municipal Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney,
Overseer of the Streets, and Marshal.
   (B)   It shall also appoint a Board of Health consisting of three members:
the Chairperson of the Village Board, who shall be Chairperson, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the governing body has
appointed a Village Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board
and serve as Secretary and Quarantine Officer.
   (C)   The governing body shall also appoint such additional officials and
employees as it may determine the municipality needs.
   (D)   All such appointees shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the advice and
consent of the remainder of the Board of Trustees. If the municipality has a
Municipal Water Commissioner, the Municipal Water Commissioner may at any time,
for sufficient cause, be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 254, passed 9-2-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208, 17-541
§ 1-202 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time, except that trustees may perform and
upon Board approval receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject
to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06. The offices or employments so
merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of
the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of official
duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 189, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02, 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06
§ 1-203 MUNICIPAL AND ASSISTANT/DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   Duties of Municipal Clerk.
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, said record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of
the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That record
shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, and the
terms of the sale with each and every item, and expense thereof. He or she
shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed
and approved. He or she shall make the property certificate of passage which
shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted
by the governing body.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality and the purpose for which they have been issued.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or
other documents of the municipality, kept and preserved in his or her office,
to be taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be
entitled to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt
therefor. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the governing body shall order public work to be done at the
expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official, or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
      (4)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees
all resolutions and communications which are directed at said officers,
employees, or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Chairperson’s signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body. Within
30 days after any meeting of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall
prepare and publish the official proceedings of the governing body in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and which was duly
designated as such by the governing body. Said publication shall set forth a
statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each
claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except
that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item.
Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the
current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles
shall be published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The charge for such
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state.
Said publication shall be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall
then keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all notices required to be
published, or posted by the Municipal Clerk by order of the governing body, or
under the ordinances of the municipality. To each of the file copies of said
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said
notices are required to be published, or the Municipal Clerk’s certificate
under seal where the same are required to be posted only.
      (5)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of
paving districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the
claims of any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said
claim is disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
      (6)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified
copies of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing
body. He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the
State Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
   (B)   Assistant/Deputy Municipal Clerk. The Governing Board may appoint an
Assistant/Deputy Municipal Clerk to aid and assist the Municipal Clerk in the
performance of his or her duties as set forth above. Additionally, the
Assistant/Deputy Municipal Clerk, in the absence of the Municipal Clerk, may
execute, draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered for the payment of money,
and in connection thereto, shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and note the particular fund from which said
warrant is payable.
(Prior Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 204, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 315, passed 5-4-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-712, 84-1201
through 84-1220
§ 1-204 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Village Treasurer shall, at
the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to
the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the
date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall
also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Village Treasurer
fails to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month,
or by a later date established by the governing body, the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees, with the advice and consent of the Trustees, may use this
failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the Village Treasurer shall be paid in the
order of their presentation therefor.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums
which shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the
source from which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and
columns, show the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and
whether the same was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer
shall deliver one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain
the other in his or her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Village Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
   (C)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within
60 days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the village for the preceding fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (D)   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village
separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and
collect all money owned by or owed to the village as directed by the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money
is, in the name of the village, in a solvent and going financial institution of
a type authorized by state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall
cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the
village, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face
thereof, “Paid by the Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or
stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 363, passed 7-9-2002)
§ 1-205 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
      The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such
he or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the Board of Trustees, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board of Trustees and shall advise any municipal official in
all matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved.
He or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as
may be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or
she shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Board of
Trustees will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement in
writing to all those instruments and documents as to whether or not the
document is in legal and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints,
attend, and prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees. Without direction, he or she shall appear and
prosecute all cases for violation of the municipal ordinances that have been
appealed to and are pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine,
when requested to do so by the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and
advise and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end
that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
ensure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage and approval are concerned. The Board of Trustees shall have the right
to compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Board of Trustees and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 1-206 VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   The Village Marshal shall direct the police work of the municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act
as Health Inspector except in the event the municipality appoints another
person. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of
violations of municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports
required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the state. In lieu of the
appointment of a Village Marshal, the governing body may arrange for the County
Sheriff’s office to assume the functions and duties of the Village Marshal.
(Neb. RS 17-213) (Prior Code, § 1-208)
§ 1-207 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires, the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances, the installation of fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment, the regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before the first day in April and
October of each year, cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk and
the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in
good standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions
provided by law. He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire and
for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist or any
person for hindering the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in
a noisy and disorderly manner, or any person who refuses to obey any lawful
order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief or an assistant
in charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any person
present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection
of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be an offense punishable by a
fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction, for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances by imposing fine, see Neb. RS 17-505
   Authority to procure equipment, organize companies, and prescribe rules, see
Neb. RS 17-147
   Inspections under Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act and the like, see Neb. RS
81-512
   Investigations and reports required, see Neb. RS 81-506
   Life insurance required, see Neb. RS 35-108
   Membership, rolls, and filings, see Neb. RS 35-102
§ 1-208 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Board of Trustees may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the Board of Trustees, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps
as may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she shall,
upon request of the Board of Trustees, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality and
make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment
of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform
those other duties as the Board of Trustees may require. All records of the
Special Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to the municipality
and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to employ special engineer, see Neb. RS 17-568
   Duties related to annexation, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to public works, see Neb. RS 17-568.01
   Duties related to sewers, see Neb. RS 17-919
   Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, see Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455
§ 1-209 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility, and the governing body determines that it
is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said municipal utilities and municipal streets.
The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by the Mayor. Any
vacancy occurring in the said office by death, resignation, or removal may be
filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal
officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the Municipal Water System, and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water
system shall be the water plant, the pump house, and all machinery and
appliances used in connection with producing and distributing water to
inhabitants of the municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the
Utilities Department shall be subject to the general directors and control of
the governing body. The Utilities Department shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the Water System which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. The Utilities Department shall make a detailed report to the governing
body at least once every six months, of the condition of the said water system,
of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery and such improvements,
repairs, and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extensions of the said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less
than the amount set by resolution by the governing body and on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties
as may be prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Department shall have the immediate
control and supervision over all the employees and property that make up the
municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of the
governing body. It shall, at least every six months, make a detailed report to
the governing body on the condition of the sewer system, and shall direct its
attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional
employees as it may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost
thereof. The Utilities Superintendent shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall inspect and
supervise all repairs made to the said system.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utilities Department shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction,
and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be its responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein
function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair. It shall, at the
request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on
the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall direct the governing body’s attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as the
Utilities Department may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street
system in the municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or
she shall issue such permits and assume such other duties as the governing body
may direct.
      (4)   Landfill/Solid Waste Collection. The village no longer owns or
operates a landfill within the village. All solid wastes collected are disposed
of at a processing facility or landfill disposal site complying with all
requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Act. The Village Board of
Trustees have determined that to secure the general comfort, health, and
general property of the village and its citizens, the village will continue
with what has been a contractual service for many years from a properly
licensed garbage collector contractor. The Village Utility Superintendent may
have some responsibilities, such as delivering and picking up receptacles as
needed, and also replacing the receptacle lids as damage is reported. The
Village Utility Superintendent has no responsibility for the collection of any
solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 1-211) (Ord. 509-2011, passed 10-11-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-214, 17-541, 17-543
§ 1-210 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Chairperson may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Chairperson, the Municipal Clerk is hereby designated as
Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
ARTICLE 3: BONDS AND OATH
Section
   
1-301   Bonds: form
   
1-302   Oath of office: municipal officials
§ 1-301 BONDS: FORM.
   (A)   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and
several, and shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the
governing body may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond
shall not fall below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company; provided no
municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license
bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship
on the bond of an official of the municipality. All said bonds shall obligate
the principal and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required by
law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the municipality and
any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds. No
bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the
governing body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the said instrument
by the Chairperson and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval of the
governing body.
   (B)   The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out
of the General Fund, or other proper municipal fund, upon a resolution to that
effect by the governing body at the beginning of any municipal year. All
official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty of
the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the
payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the governing body. In the
event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the
municipality, in the opinion of the governing body, become insufficient, the
governing body may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said
officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event
that the officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the governing body,
then the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and
it shall be the duty of the governing body to appoint a competent and qualified
person to fill the said office. Any official who is re-elected to office shall
be required to file a new bond after each election.
(Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604) (Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 1-302 OATH OF OFFICE: MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I                                                      do solemnly swear that
I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of
the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely,
and without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
                                       , according to law, and to the best of
my ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So
help me God.”
(Neb. RS 11-101) (Prior Code, § 1-302)
ARTICLE 4: CORPORATE SEAL
Section
   
1-401   Seal: official corporate
§ 1-401 SEAL: OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription “Seal, Village
of Kenesaw, Nebraska, incorporated July 26, 1884”. The Municipal Clerk shall
affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the
governing body, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-502) (Prior Code, § 1-401)
ARTICLE 5: MEETINGS
Section
   
1-501   Meetings defined
   
1-502   Public body defined
   
1-503   Public
   
1-504   Closed sessions
   
1-505   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
1-506   Emergency meetings
   
1-507   Minutes
   
1-508   Votes
   
1-509   Notice to news media
   
1-510   Public participation
   
1-511   Regular meetings; special meetings
   
1-512   Order of business
   
1-513   Parliamentary procedure
   
1-514   Change in office
   
1-515   Reorganizational meeting
   
1-516   Telephone conference calls; when allowed
§ 1-501 MEETINGS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings of a public body for the
purposes of briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative
policy, or the taking of any formal action.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(2)) (Prior Code, § 1-501)
§ 1-502 PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BODY. Includes:
      (1)   The governing body of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by Constitution,
statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-502) (Ord. 205, passed 5-4-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1)
§ 1-503 PUBLIC.
   (A)   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by
the governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later
than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours
before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the governing body scheduled
outside the corporate limits of the municipality. The governing body shall have
the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at
such public meetings.
   (B)   The minutes of the Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the
manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, and the names of
each member of the governing body present or absent at each convened meeting.
The minutes of the governing body shall be a public record open to inspection
by the public upon request at any reasonable time at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the governing body in open
session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted or
that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-503) (Ord. 155, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 1-504 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 206, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 224, passed 7-11-1995;
Ord. 406, passed 2-6- 2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 1-505 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this article or the Open Meetings
Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 to 84-1414. No closed session, informal meeting,
chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall
be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements of this article or
the Act.
   (B)   This article and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-504.01) (Ord. 406, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 1-506 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
1-509  of this article shall be compiled with in conducting emergency meetings.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Prior Code, § 1-505)
§ 1-507 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413) (Prior Code, § 1-506)
§ 1-508 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413) (Prior Code, § 1-507)
§ 1-509 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the Secretary
or other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting, and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Prior Code, § 1-508)
§ 1-510 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this article, the public shall have the
right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or
any part of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called
pursuant to §
1-504 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment, or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall be not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this article, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small to
accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this state. No public body shall hold a meeting
outside the state. The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable
effort to accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony
presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the meeting,
for examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies
shall make available at least one current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted
in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of the public. At the
beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of
the posted information.
(Prior Code, § 1-509) (Ord. 149, passed 4-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 1-511 REGULAR MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the meeting place
of the village. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each
month at the hour of 8:00 p.m. At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the members of the Board of
Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the Board known to be out of
the state, or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of
the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President of the Board, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in Chapter 1, Article 6
herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 147, passed 4-1-1986; Ord. 506-2011, passed 10-11-
2011; Ord. 532-2019, passed 11-12-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205
§ 1-512 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk, the Chairperson, and such other municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the village
auditorium, and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 1-513 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the governing
body and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
governing body. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated
until the point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no
person shall leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to
speaking, shall arise from his or her seat and address himself or herself to
the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine himself or herself to
the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the Chairperson shall
recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced
to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk or any
member of the governing body. Every member of the governing body who is present
when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a
majority of the governing body present. No motion shall be put or debated
unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson before
being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the
minutes, the name of the member of the governing body making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “Yeas” and “Nays” shall
be taken and entered in the minutes upon the request of any member of the
governing body. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof
with the consent of the member of the governing body seconding the said
resolution, motion, or ordinance.
   (B)   When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times, or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided without debate. Any of
the rules of the governing body for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds
vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by
these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the governing
body shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 1-514 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-513) (Ord. 237, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204
§ 1-515 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place of
meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson Pro Tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required. After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly
qualified, the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled
as Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate
his or her candidates for appointive offices and said officers shall hold
office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson
shall then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the
duty of each and every member of the Board or of its successors in office and
of each officer hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first
regular meeting of the Board in December following his or her election.
Immediately upon the assembly of the newly elected Board upon the first regular
meeting in December following the election, each officer elected at the general
election shall take possession of his or her office. Each appointive officer
who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing the required bond,
approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office of the Municipal Clerk within
two weeks from the date of his or her said appointment; provided, on said bond
shall be endorsed the same oath as required of a Trustee. Failure to qualify by
elective or appointive officers within the time and manner provided in this
section shall and does in itself create a vacancy in the office to which said
person failing to qualify shall have been elected or appointed.
(Ord. 238, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204
§ 1-516 TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS; WHEN ALLOWED.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 to 13-827, the Joint Public
Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 to 13-2550, of the governing body of a public
power district having a chartered territory of more than 50 counties in this
state, or of the governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory
committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management
Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
Neb. RS 84-1408 through 84-1414.
(Prior Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 351, passed 8-7-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411(3)
ARTICLE 6: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
Section
   
1-601   Ordinances, rules, and resolutions; grant of power
   
1-602   Ordinances; introduction
   
1-603   Resolutions and motions; procedure
   
1-604   Ordinances; style
   
1-605   Ordinances; title
   
1-606   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws; reading; passage
   
1-607   Ordinances; publication or posting
   
1-608   Ordinances; certificate of publication or posting
   
1-609   Ordinances; effective date; emergency ordinances
   
1-610   Ordinances; amendments and revisions
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the municipality and
its trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 256, passed 9-2-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of
the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602) (Ord. 257, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 1-603 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Board. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska:”
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Prior Code, § 1-604)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (Prior Code, § 1-605)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the governing body, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the governing body shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call
or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an
electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the
governing body to be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 225, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 252, passed 8-5-1997;
Ord. 258, passed 9-2- 1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 151, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 279, passed 12-2-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Prior Code, § 1-608)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths vote of the governing body, and be
entered of record on the Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 260, passed 10-7-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
§ 1-610 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 261, passed 10-7-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
ARTICLE 7: ELECTIONS
Section
   
1-701   Election of officers; certifications required
   
1-702   Generally
   
1-703   Joint, general, notice
   
1-704   Special
   
1-705   Special municipal
   
1-706   Filing fee
   
1-707   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
1-708   Voter qualifications
   
1-709   Ballots
   
1-710   Recall procedure
   
1-711   Board of trustees; terms; qualifications
§ 1-701 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 239, passed 7-2-1996; Ord. 333, passed 10-3-2000;
Ord. 407, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 32-401, 32-404, 32-532, 32-556
§ 1-702 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-
101 to 32-1551, and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551. Any other election held
by the municipality shall be held as provided in the Election Act, being Neb.
RS 32-101 to 32-1551, unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws
of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
(Prior Code, § 1-701.01) (Ord. 407, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 1-703 JOINT, GENERAL, NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than 40 days prior to the primary or general
election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all municipal
elections which are held in conjunction with the county.
(Neb. RS 34-404) (Prior Code, § 1-702)
§ 1-704 SPECIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be
subject to division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
(Prior Code, § 1-703) (Ord. 140, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 262, passed 10-7-1997;
Ord. 403, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 1-705 SPECIAL MUNICIPAL.
   A special municipal election may be held upon notice of such election being
prepared and published by the Municipal Clerk, except as otherwise provided by
law, not less than five days, nor more than ten days prior to any special
election. Such elections shall be conducted in accordance with the Municipal
Election Code.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
§ 1-706 FILING FEE.
   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to 1% of the annual salary
for the office for which the candidate will file; provided, there shall be no
filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per diem is paid
rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of less than
$500 per year. No nominating papers shall be filed until the proper Municipal
Treasurer’s receipt, showing the payment of the filing fee, shall be presented
to the election officer with whom the nomination papers are to be filed.
(Neb. RS 32-608) (Prior Code, § 1-705)
§ 1-707 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in this section or files as a write-in candidate as
prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, or residing in the municipality, if candidates are not chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608.
The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the ward in which the officer is to be elected or in the
municipality, as appropriate.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality, not to
exceed 2000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Prior Code, § 1-706) (Ord. 140, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 290, passed 10-6-1998;
Ord. 383, passed 10-7-2003)
§ 1-708 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(Neb. RS 17-602, 32-102) (Prior Code, § 1-709)
§ 1-709 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Neb. RS 32-1202) (Prior Code, § 1-711)
§ 1-710 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any or all of the elected officials of the village may be removed from
office by recall pursuant to Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1309. Petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-628, 32-630, and
32-1303. Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (B)   (1)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Village Clerk.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and
filed with the Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The Clerk shall deliver a copy of the affidavit by
certified mail to the official sought to be removed. If the official chooses,
he or she may submit a defense statement in typewritten form in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing Clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the affidavit. The Clerk shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (2)   The Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Clerk
shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or circulators
to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No petition paper
shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such certificate. The
principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions from the Clerk may
distribute such petitions to registered voters residing in the village who may
act as circulators of such petitions.
      (3)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629, 32-630, and 32-1303.
      (4)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of the
Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (C)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Clerk within 30 days after the Clerk issues the initial
petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall
ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of
registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of
the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed
before the petitions are filed with the Clerk for signature verification. If
the petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk shall attach to the petition
a certificate showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number
of signatures has not been gathered, the Clerk shall file the petition in his
or her office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same
purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (D)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk shall
notify the official whose removal is sought and the Board of Trustees that
sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five days after receiving the notice, the Board shall order an election
to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the expiration of the
five-day period, except that if any other election is to be held in the village
within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period, the Board shall
provide for the holding of the removal election on the same day. After the
Board sets the date for the recall election, the recall election shall be held
regardless of whether the official whose removal is sought resigns before the
recall election is held.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (E)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (F)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and state law.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Village Clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (F)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(Prior Code, § 1-713) (Ord. 140, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 291, passed 10-6-1998;
Ord. 382, passed 10-7-2003)
§ 1-711 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large unless the registered voters of the municipality have
voted to elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202, and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Prior Code, § 1-714) (Ord. 140, passed 10-2-1984; Ord. 240, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, 32-554
ARTICLE 8: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1-801   Fiscal year
   
1-802   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
1-803   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
1-804   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
1-805   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
1-806   Budget procedure
   
1-807   Appropriations
   
1-808   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
1-809   Property tax; certification of amount
   
1-810   Expenditures
   
1-811   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
1-812   Annual audit
   
1-813   Claims
   
1-814   Warrants
   
1-815   Special assessment fund
   
1-816   Sinking funds
   
1-817   Deposit of funds
   
1-818   Investment of funds
   
1-819   Bond issues
   
1-820   Property tax levy; property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
1-821   Property tax request; procedure
   
1-822   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
1-823   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
1-824   Revision of budget
§ 1-801 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30, except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS
18-2801 to 18-2808.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 241, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 1-802 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement
on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to
publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the governing body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The municipality shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 216, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 263, passed 10-7-1997;
Ord. 293, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 348, passed 8-7-2001; Ord. 384, passed 10-7-
2003)
§ 1-803 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying Board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.   
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(Prior Code, § 1-803) (Ord. 294, passed 10-6-1998; Ord. 385, passed 10-7-2003)
§ 1-804 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget
statement, which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately
the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body and the amount to be levied for all other
purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, ANTICIPATED LITIGATION
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of
tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 217, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 242, passed 7-2-1996;
Ord. 264, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 295, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 1-805 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993, and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the governing body in
September, the governing body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) below,
such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount
expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget
year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the governing body that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
governing body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 226, passed 7-11-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01, 13-509.02
§ 1-806 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 1-807 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513, to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill”, in which are appropriated such sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 218, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 243, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 1-808 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-807) (Ord. 299, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 1-809 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-812) (Ord. 296, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 1-810 EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any
one year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(Neb. RS 17-708) (Prior Code, § 1-813)
§ 1-811 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into for enlargement or general improvements, such as
water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A Municipal Electric Utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is: $20,000 or less; $40,000 or less and the Municipal Electric
Utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
$60,000 or less and the Municipal Electric Utility has gross annual revenue
from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or $80,000 or less and the Municipal
Electric Utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to, life, health, or property, estimates
of costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body
when materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same
seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to
the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162 or when the
contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. RS
48-1503.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For the purpose of this division (I),
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency; and
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-814) (Ord. 303, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 1-812 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
municipal fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
(Prior Code, § 1-815) (Ord. 390, passed 11-4-2003)
§ 1-813 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal Treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715) (Prior Code, § 1-816)
§ 1-814 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is
payable, and the purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid
than upon warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included of
such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711) (Prior Code, § 1-817)
§ 1-815 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (Prior Code, § 1-818)
§ 1-816 SINKING FUNDS.
   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the governing
body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three times on successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The governing body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
state law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the governing
body in the manner provided by state law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the governing body is authorized to do so by 60% of the
qualified electors of the municipality voting at a general election favoring
such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
(Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339) (Prior Code, § 1-819)
§ 1-817 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the Board of
Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a member of the
Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall not disqualify
such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu
thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act,
being Neb. RS 77-2386 to 77-23,108, to secure the payment of all such deposits
and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362)
(Prior Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 301, passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 389, passed 11-4-2003;
Ord. 404, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 1-818 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Village Board Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct
and authorize the Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding
bonds or registered warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either
singly or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate
credit banks, or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the
Farm Credit Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of
the United States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to
the fund out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates, or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money
borrowed, and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there
be any surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the
payment of public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into
the General Fund as the Board of Trustees may direct. The surplus remaining, if
any, may, if the Board of Trustees, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or
obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Village Board Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, by
resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus
electric light, water, or gas funds, or the funds arising from the sale of
electric light, water, or natural gas distribution properties, by the payment
of outstanding electric light, water, or gas distribution bonds or water
warrants then due. The excess, if any, after such payments, may be transferred
to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the Board of
Trustees, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds, as provided in Neb. RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341) (Prior Code, § 1-821)
§ 1-819 BOND ISSUES.
   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Neb. RS 10-401 through 10-411, 10-606 through 10-612, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-
529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-3513, 39-836) (Prior Code, § 1-822)
§ 1-820 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy, plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 to 13-827, or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 to 13-
2550. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support
a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501,
visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to
Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202.
Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the
Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which require
or obligate the village to pay such judgment, to the extent such judgment is
not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 to 3-514, and community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2154, may be allocated property taxes as authorized
by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the municipal
levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such limitation shall
not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
municipal levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551.
For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after
May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)    The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated
in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question
are opposed to such tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose such tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action
to exceed the limits. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 265, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 297, passed 11-10-1998;
Ord. 335, passed 10-3-2000; Ord. 387, passed 10-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3444
§ 1-821 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Board of Trustees passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least
five days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 298, passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 334, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601.02
§ 1-822 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the governing body
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state to the
extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Treasurer
shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the
municipality and be approved by the Chairperson. The bond shall be conditioned
that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the
Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the
amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount
of the accretion thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned
that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by
the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being
Neb. RS 77-2386 to 77-23,108, to the Municipal Clerk. The penal sum of such
bond shall be equal to or greater than the amount of the deposit in excess of
that portion of such deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for
any loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Chairperson as provided in division (B)
above or which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in
division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 302, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720, 16-714 through 16-716
§ 1-823 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The governing body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards as a method of cash payment of any tax,
levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license, fee, or
assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as provided
by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card shall be
collected by the municipal official.
   (C)   The governing body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards as a means of cash payment to any facility it operates in a
proprietary capacity and may adjust the price for services to reflect the
handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The governing body may choose to accept the types of credit cards,
charge cards, or debit cards accepted by and the services provided to the state
pursuant to the contract entered into by the state with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those political subdivisions that choose to
participate in the state contract. The governing body may choose not to
participate in the state contract and may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the governing body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality. The surcharge or convenience
fee shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and regulations
of the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in writing by the
credit card or charge card company involved. When a person elects to make a
payment to the municipality by credit card or charge card and such a surcharge
or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of such surcharge or convenience fee
shall be deemed voluntary by such person and shall be in no case refundable.
(Prior Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 304, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-609
§ 1-824 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the Board of Trustees body that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The governing body has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. Such published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the governing body, the
governing body shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which such governing body is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts,
a copy of the revised budget, as adopted. The governing body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
Such warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
a governing body may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a governing body shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the governing body shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which such
governing body is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
governing body may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized
by the budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-827) (Ord. 336, passed 10-3-2000; Ord. 365, passed 7-9-2002;
Ord. 386, passed 10-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-511
ARTICLE 9: COMPENSATION
Section
   
1-901   Municipal officials
   
1-902   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
1-903   Salaries of officials
   
1-904   Member of Area Planning and Zoning Committee
§ 1-901 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02, 17-612) (Prior Code, § 1-901)
§ 1-902 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   Includes a business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected municipal official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who:
      (1)   Has no business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
      (2)   Will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest within the meaning of
this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to:
      (1)   All employees; or
      (2)   All employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse, or child for special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 shall not apply to contracts covered by this
section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
(Prior Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 1-902-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 141, passed 10-2-
1984; Ord. 152, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 364, passed 7-9-2002)
§ 1-903 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All compensation for officials and employees of the village, fees and
charges for municipal services, and minimal fines imposed for violation of
municipal ordinances in force and effect as of this date shall remain in full
force and effect from and after passage of this section until such time as such
salaries, fees, charges, and fines are changed by the Chairperson and Village
Board.
   (B)   From and after this date, all compensation of village officials and
employees, fees and charges for providing municipal services to the customers
of such services and minimum fines for violation of municipal ordinances may be
established from time to time by ordinance or resolution as required or
permitted by state law. Any such ordinance or resolution shall be on file with
the Village Clerk and available for public inspection during normal office
hours. It shall not be required that such ordinances containing compensation,
fees, charges, and fines be incorporated as part of the general ordinances in
book form but shall be published as required by law.
(Ord. 497, passed 10-6-2009)
§ 1-904 MEMBER OF AREA PLANNING AND ZONING COMMITTEE.
   Hereafter, the village appointee to the County Area Planning and Zoning
Committee shall be compensated by the village for its services to this Board,
at the rate of $15 per month.
(Prior Code, § 1-904) (Ord. 196, passed 4-7-1992)
ARTICLE 10: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
1-1001   Violation; penalty
§ 1-1001 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   Article
      
1.   STANDING COMMITTEES
      
2.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: STANDING COMMITTEES
Section
   
2-101   Standing committees; general provisions
§ 2-101 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Members of standing committees. At the organizational meeting, or the
next regular meeting of the Village Board of Trustees after any changes in the
number and description of said standing committees after lawful adoption
therein, the Village Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing
committees as the Village Board may create by ordinance or resolution. The
membership of such standing committees may be changed at any time by the
Village Chairperson. The Village Chairperson shall be a member ex-officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committee shall serve a
term of office of one year unless reappointed.
   (B)   Obsolete committees. The present standing Committee of Street; Water
and Sewer; Pool and Landfill; Auditoriums and Parks; and Fire and Police are
hereby found to be obsolete and do not meet the current needs of the village.
   (C)   Committees established. The Board, by majority vote upon the
resolution herein, now establishes the following standing committees.
      (1)   Executive. Said Committee to be comprised of the Chairperson and
designated Trustee as appointed by the majority of the Board to act as
Chairperson when the Chairperson is absent from any regular or special meeting,
and any department head employee designated by the Chairperson necessary to
resolve any issue specifically dealing with said employees’ job
responsibilities. Said Committee can only act for the majority of the Board if
by prior majority vote said authority to act for the Board as a whole in regard
to any specific issues has been conveyed.
      (2)   Building and grounds. Said Committee’s primary purpose is to be
involved in issues as to any of the municipal buildings and grounds, not
limited to but including the municipal pool, the municipal parks, and municipal
auditorium(s).
      (3)   Utilities. Said Committee’s primary purpose is to be involved with
all issues pertaining to the management of the physical plant and utilities
provided by and within the village; said responsibilities extend to, but are
not limited to, issues involving the village water system, sewer system,
garbage collection, recycling, electricity, and natural gas.
      (4)   Street maintenance. Said Committee’s primary purpose is to be
involved in issues involving roadways in and around the village, including
construction, maintenance, and repair.
   (D)   Fire and police. Said Committee’s primary purpose is to be involved in
the acquiring, providing of, and promotion of fire and law enforcement
protection for the citizens of the village. The current Emergency Management
Coordinator shall be a nonvoting member of said Committee.
   (E)   Personnel. Said Committee’s primary purpose is to assist the
Chairperson in regard to issues related to employment and personnel policies
and issues involving the municipal employees of whom are not elected officials.
(Prior Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 419, passed 2-5-2008)
ARTICLE 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
   
2-201   Planning Commission
   
2-202   Board of Adjustment
   
2-203   Board of Health
   
2-204   Community Redevelopment Authority
   
2-205   Limited Community Redevelopment Authority
§ 2-201 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Chairperson, by
and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Board of
Trustees. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which
the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the
area over which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that a
sufficient number of residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. For purposes of this section, a
sufficient number of residents shall mean 200 residents. The term of each
regular member shall be three years, except that three regular members of the
first Commission shall serve for terms of one year, three for terms of two
years, and three for terms of three years. All regular members shall hold
office until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public
hearing before the Board of Trustees, be removed by the Chairperson with the
consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the Board of Trustees for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees, to give bond in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the
Commission’s first meeting in June of each year, the Commission shall organize
by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Commission shall be
funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of the General Fund. A
number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members
appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any three members of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Commission to
make and adopt plans for the physical development of the municipality,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of the municipality. All actions by the
Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Chairperson
and Board of Trustees. Recommendations from the Commission shall be received by
the Board of Trustees within 45 days after the Commission begins consideration
of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital
improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of
territory, or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees may, from time to time, designate. No member of the Board of Trustees
or other municipal official, except where otherwise specifically provided,
shall serve as a member of the Commission while serving any other term of
office. No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
   (C)   The Chairperson, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint one alternate member to the
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall
hold no other municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three
years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed
and approved. The alternate member may be removed from office in the same
manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant
other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for
the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson with the approval of a
majority vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees. The alternate
member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and participating
member of the Commission at any time when less than the full number of regular
Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 227, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 244, passed 7-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 2-202 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Adams County Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment
for the village.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01) (Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 2-203 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of three members. The members of the Board shall include the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees, who shall serve as Chairperson, and two other members. One
member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found who is
willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall
be the Board’s medical advisor. If the governing body has appointed a Village
Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board and serve as
Secretary and quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed and unless removed
by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees. The members of the Board shall reorganize at the first meeting in
December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall to enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress,
and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 266, passed 11-4-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 2-204 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. The Community Redevelopment Authority of the village
(hereinafter the “Authority”) is hereby created. The Authority shall operate as
a municipal division of the village reporting to the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees as set forth hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
   (B)   Members. Five persons, all whom shall be residents of the village,
shall constitute the Authority members. Five members shall be selected by the
Chairperson and approved by the Board of Trustees in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the state’s Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101
et seq. (the “Act”). The Chairperson shall designate the term of office of each
member, as provided in the Act. The Authority members shall select one of their
members to serve as Chairperson and one to serve as Vice-Chairperson. A total
of four members of the Authority shall be necessary for a quorum for the
transaction of business of the Authority. The Authority’s members shall adopt
rules for the transaction of business of the Authority. The Authority’s members
shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a record
of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, all of which
shall be made available for public inspection at the village offices during
regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
   (C)   Powers. The Authority shall have all the statutory powers provided for
in the Act. The Authority shall keep an accurate account of all of its
activities, of all receipts and disbursements, and make an annual report of
such activities, receipts to the Chairperson and Board of Trustees for the
village. The Authority is hereby directed to provide the maximum opportunity,
consistent with the sound needs of the village as a whole, to the
rehabilitation and redevelopment of the Community Redevelopment Areas by
private enterprises. The Authority is directed to formulate for the entire
municipality a workable program for utilizing appropriate private and public
resources to eliminate or prevent the development or spread of urban blight,
discourage needed urban rehabilitation, to provide for the redevelopment of
substandard and blighted areas, or to undertake such foresaid activities, and
other feasible municipal activities as may be suitable employed to achieve the
objectives of such workable program. Such program shall be provided for in
accordance with the Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (D)   Director. The Authority may select a person to serve as Director and
Ex-Officio Secretary of the Authority and that person shall perform such duties
as may be assigned by the Authority, including necessary administrative
functions as described in the Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 280, passed 12-2-1997; Ord. 285, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 2-205 LIMITED COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This authority shall legally be known as “The Limited Community
Redevelopment Authority of the Village of Kenesaw”.
   (B)   The LCRA shall consist of five members of the community of the village
that shall be individually appointed by majority vote of the Village Board for
terms not to exceed five years and shall expire upon the completion of single
specific project authorized in this section. Vacancies on the LCRA shall be
filled in the same manner. Members shall hold office until their successor has
been appointed or their term expires, and all members shall serve without
compensation but are entitled to reimbursement for all necessary expenses
incurred. A member may be reappointed to multiple terms.
   (C)   The LCRA shall organize by electing one of its five members
chairperson and another vice- chairperson, and such other officers as may be
desired. In choosing officers of the LCRA or any other matter requiring a
resolution or other official action, a concurrence of three of the five members
of the LCRA is required.
   (D)   No member or employee of the LCRA established under this section shall
have any interest directly or indirectly in any contract for property,
materials, or services to be required by the LCRA and no member shall also be a
member of any planning commission created under Neb. RS 19-925.
   (E)   All income, revenue, profits, and other funds received by the LCRA
established under this section from whatever source derived, or appropriated by
the village or realized from tax receipts or comprised in the special revenue
fund of the village designated for the authority or from the proceeds of bonds,
or otherwise, shall be deposited with the Village Treasurer, as Ex-Officio
Treasurer of the authority without commingling the money with any other money
under his or her control and disbursed by him or her by check, draft, or order
only upon warrants, orders, or requisitions by the chairperson of the authority
or other person authorized by the authority which shall state distinctly the
purpose for which the same are drawn. A permanent record shall be kept by the
authority of all warrants, orders, or requisitions so drawn, showing the date,
amount, consideration, and to whom payable. When paid, the same shall be
canceled and kept on file by the Village Treasurer. The books of the LCRA
established under this section shall from time to time be audited upon the
order of the Village Board in such manner as it may direct, and all books and
records of the authority shall at all times be open to public inspection.
   (F)   The LCRA shall keep an accurate account of all its activities and of
all receipts and disbursements and make an annual report of such activities,
receipts, and disbursements to the Village Board.
   (G)   Subject to the restrictions of this section and the laws of the state
governing community redevelopment authorities and within its designated area of
operation, the LCRA established by this section shall have the authority,
powers, and duties of a community redevelopment authority as granted to it in
Neb. RS 18-2107.
   (H)   The LCRA, being a Limited Community Redevelopment Authority, has only
one single specific pilot project that is authorized under its creation. This
single project is the residential development plan proposed by a group of
private citizens, calling themselves the Kenesaw Community Development Group
(KCDG), said project being colloquially known as the “KCDG Project”. Once the
LCRA’s work on the KCDG project is complete, the LCRA’s authority under this
section ends as do the terms of all members of the LCRA.
(Ord. 533-2020, passed 1-14-2020)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
2-301   Violation; penalty
§ 2-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
   Article
      
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
      
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
4.   PARKS
      
5.   LANDFILL
      
6.   CIVIL DEFENSE
      
7.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
8.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-101   Operation and funding
   
3-102   Definitions
   
3-103   Consumer’s application
   
3-104   Water contract
   
3-105   Installation procedure
   
3-106   Installation expense
   
3-107   Repairs and maintenance
   
3-108   Fees and collections
   
3-109   Rates
   
3-110   Water bills
   
3-111   Lien
   
3-112   Single premises
   
3-113   Restriction of water use
   
3-114   Fire hydrants
   
3-115   Mandatory hook-up; water meters
   
3-116   Inspection
   
3-117   Destruction of property
   
3-118   Time
   
3-119   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
3-120   Fluoride prohibited
   
3-121   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system; prohibited;
backflow prevention devices required
   
3-122   Backflow prevention devices; expense; application; installation
   
3-123   Well-head protection; intent; definition; designation
   
3-124   Well-head protection; water well defined
   
3-125   Well-head protection; structures or activities; specified distances
   
3-126   Well-head protection; permit required
   
3-127   Well-head protection; structure or activity; waiver; conditions
   
3-128   Well-head protection; preexisting structures or activities; continued
use; when allowed
§ 3-101 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates
in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305) (Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 3-102 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe, other than a supply or service pipe, that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 3-103 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-537, 19-2701) (Prior Code, § 3-103)
§ 3-104 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises, or place shall
again be made except by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 3-105 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 3-106 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main and providing
fixtures and labor up to and including the stop box at the lot line of the
customer. Only the Utilities Superintendent, his or her designated agent, or
someone acting under his or her direction, shall be allowed to tap municipal
water lines. In all cases, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her
designated agent, shall be present during the tapping of municipal water lines.
Residents and nonresidents shall pay a tap fee in such sum as the governing
body shall set pursuant to resolution of the governing body. The customer
shall, at his or her own expense, bring water service from the stop box and
upon his or her own premises and shall employ a qualified individual who shall
install water service to the place of dispersement. The extension of commercial
mains into unsupplied territory within the corporate limits may be made by
means of water extension districts.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 248, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 3-107 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his or her
own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box
to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities
Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the expense of
the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by
the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided, that if the
customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed
through his or her own recklessness, carelessness, or neglect so that the meter
must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill and
collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the
same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged
or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of
the customer. All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the
expense of the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the
test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such
test shall be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to
test any water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be
beyond repair the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter
on the customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a
consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for
water during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly
consumption during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no
such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as
may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to
divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said
meter, or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-107)
 § 3-108 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate that is
different from other customers of the same class or type. Persons, firms, or
corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall pay such rates as the
governing body shall set. Without respect to schedule of rates for other
customers, the governing body may enter into special contracts with large
consumers of water, but never at a rate less than the cost of production;
provided, that the contract shall always provide that the said large consumer
shall always pay the minimum rate for other customers. Whenever water service
is supplied to more than one customer through the same supply pipe, each
customer shall pay the minimum water service charge each month.
(Neb. RS 17-540) (Prior Code, § 3-108)
§ 3-109 RATES.
   The monthly water rates shall be set by the Village Board and shall be
available at the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection during
office hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
§ 3-110 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly. The Village Clerk is to charge
and collect from each customer for the monthly fee for water usage, together
with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department. Bills
shall be processed no later than the fifth of each month and shall be due on
the fifteenth day of the same month as the billing. Bills paid after the
fifteenth day of the month in which payment is due shall have a penalty charge
added hereto the bill of the consumer. Penalty charges will be set by
resolution of the Village Board and on file at the office of the Village Clerk.
Bills not paid by the fifteenth day of the month shall be deemed to be
delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the Village
Clerk shall follow the procedures outlined in §
3-701 regarding disconnections of utilities. The Village Clerk shall assess an
additional fee set by resolution of the Village Board and on file at the office
of the Village Clerk in the event that the water is shut off for the non-
payment of any water bill, to compensate the village for the additional hook-up
necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 524-2019, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 3-111 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1
of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due
for water together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body,
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-538) (Prior Code, § 3-111)
§ 3-112 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 3-113 RESTRICTION OF WATER USE.
   (A)   Upon notice from the Chairperson, the use of water for all uses except
domestic uses shall cease during a fire alarm or during a fire. Water use may
resume upon notice by the Chairperson.
   (B)   In the case of shortage, imminent shortage, or possible contamination
of the public water supply, the use of water may be restricted according to a
restriction plan adopted by resolution of the Board.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to
have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) (Ord. 174, passed 11-7-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 17-537
§ 3-114 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
§ 3-115 MANDATORY HOOK-UP; WATER METERS.
   (A)   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon
notice by the governing body, to hook-up with the Municipal Water System; and
on all new construction built after the passage of this section shall be
required to install water meters at the time connection is made with the
Municipal Water System.
   (B)   All residents of the village who are connected to the Village Water
System are required to have an operable water meter connected to their water
line and all property owners and their lessees and licensees are required to
allow the village, through its employees or designees, access to their
property, during reasonable times, for the purposes of installation,
maintenance, or replacement of said water meters.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) (Ord. 287, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 517-2016, passed 7-14-
2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 3-116 INSPECTION.
   Periodic building inspections may be made by the Utilities Superintendent,
or his or her duly authorized agents, who may request an administrative search
warrant to access, at any reasonable time, all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water. Upon issuance of an administrative
search warrant for the area, they shall determine whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water within the provisions of this article.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-116)
§ 3-117 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 3-118 TIME.
   All taps or plumbing work done on or to the Municipal Water System shall be
done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-118)
§ 3-119 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No municipal utility shall discontinue service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any due account unless such utility shall first
give written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber who
has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
County Welfare Department, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of
such proposed termination shall be given to the County Welfare Department.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
Municipal Utility, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any domestic
subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify the domestic subscriber of the
time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 3-120 FLUORIDE PROHIBITED.
   No fluoride or fluoride compound shall be added to the municipal water
supply of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 3-121 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; PROHIBITED;
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any water
supplies or any other connection whereby potentially unsafe or contaminating
materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal water distribution
system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (C)   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on their
premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device, or
failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at least annually
shall be in violation of this section and §
3-122 and may have their water service discontinued. Any customer who has had
their service discontinued for violation of this section and §
3-122 shall be subject to a $50 reconnect fee to have the service reinstated
after supplying proof that the potential cross-connection has been eliminated
or properly protected.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 202, passed 10-6-1992; Ord. 393, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 3-122 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; EXPENSE; APPLICATION; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, State’s Department of Health, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the municipality, if applicable.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
Board.
   (G)   For provisions regarding reinstatement of service after violations of
this section and § 3-121, see § 3-121.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 202, passed 10-6-1992; Ord. 393, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 3-123 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; INTENT; DEFINITION; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of §§
3-123 through
3-128 is to establish control by the village over the location of future
potential sources of contamination within the village, and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, of the village’s drinking water system so as to prevent or
minimize any hazard to the safety of the village’s drinking water.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WELL-HEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water or
wellfield.
   (C)   Designation. The Village Board designates a Well-Head Protection Area
for the purpose of protection of the public water supply. The boundaries of the
Well-Head Protection Area are northwest quarter of Section 35 north of the
railroad tracks, all of Section 34, north half of Section 33, southwest quarter
of Section 27, south half of Section 28, northwest quarter of Section 28,
southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 8, Range 12 West Adams County,
Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001; Ord. 401, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 3-124 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; WATER WELL DEFINED.
   For purposes of §§
3-123 through
3-128, WATER WELL shall mean any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored,
washed, driven, dug, jetted, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of
exploring for ground water, monitoring ground water, utilizing the geothermal
properties of the ground, or extracting water from or injecting water into the
underground water. WATER WELL shall not include any excavation made for
obtaining or prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals, or products mined or
quarried or inserting media to repressure oil or natural gas bearing
formations.
(Prior Code, § 3-123.01) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 3-125 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; STRUCTURES OR ACTIVITIES; SPECIFIED DISTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct, or replace any of the
following structures or conduct any of the following activities within the
distance specified below from an existing municipal water well.
Category Distance
Category                                    Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste      500 feet
Cesspool                                    500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product               500 feet
Corral                                      500 feet
Dump                                        500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                   500 feet
Pit toilet                                  500 feet
Sanitary landfill                           500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                   100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                         50 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanent water tight) 10 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                      100 feet
Septic tank                                 500 feet
Sewage lagoon                               1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                      500 feet
Sewage wet well                             500 feet
Water well                                  1,000 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 3-123.02) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 3-126 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The placing, maintaining, constructing or replacing of any structure or
activity as set forth in §
3-125, hereinafter termed “a § 3-125 structure or activity”, within the
corporate limits or within one mile of the corporate limits of the village
shall not be started unless a permit approved by the village building permit
process has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 3-123.03) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 3-127 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; STRUCTURE OR ACTIVITY; WAIVER; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Board of Trustees may consider allowing a §
3-125 structure or activity closer to a municipal water well than the
limitations set forth in §
3-125 hereof. Closer placement shall be allowed only under the following
conditions.
   (A)   An application must first be filed with the Village Clerk. Preference
for approval will be given to §
3-125 structures or activities that do not disturb any water bearing strata.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees shall refer the application to its
engineer for evaluation and report. The estimated cost of the engineer’s fees
must be paid at the time of filing the application. Any additional costs, which
are reasonably incurred by the engineer in making his or her examination and
report, shall be paid by the applicant, in addition to any previously paid
estimated costs.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees shall consider the engineer’s report and
any additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching its decision
on whether to allow the placement of a §
3-125 structure or activity, as above defined, the Village Board of Trustees
must act to prevent all sources of possible or likely water contamination.
   (D)   If the Village Board of Trustees approved the installation, it shall
submit the application, together with the engineer’s report, to the state’s
Department of Health for final approval or denial.
   (E)   No installation shall be made without the approval of both the Village
Board of Trustees and the state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 3-123.04) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 3-128 WELL-HEAD PROTECTION; PREEXISTING STRUCTURES OR ACTIVITIES; CONTINUED
USE; WHEN ALLOWED.
   Section
3-125 structures or activities in existence and use, as of the effective date
of §§
3-123 through
3-128, shall continue to be permitted unless such continued existence or use
presents a hazard to the quality or quantity of the drinking water available
for public use as the village’s drinking water. The owner of any §
3-125 structure or activity shall have the burden of establishing the existence
and use of said §
3-125 structure or activity at the time of the effective date of §§
3-123 through
3-128.
(Prior Code, § 3-123.05) (Ord. 344, passed 5-1-2001)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-201   Operation and funding
   
3-202   Definitions
   
3-203   Application for permit
   
3-204   Sewer contract
   
3-205   Mandatory hook-up
   
3-206   Direct connections
   
3-207   Service contracts
   
3-208   Installation procedure
   
3-209   Installation expense
   
3-210   Repairs and maintenance
   
3-211   Sewer rates
   
3-212   Old building sewers; use with new buildings; examination and testing
   
3-213   Unlawful discharge
   
3-214   Damage to sewer works
   
3-215   Inspection of sewer works on private property
   
3-216   Violations and penalty
   
3-217   Placement of culverts
§ 3-201 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through
the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the governing body may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on
the taxable value of all taxable property in the municipality. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the Water and
Sewer System.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 305, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 3-202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory oxidation
of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen  ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded into such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residents, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which caries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department of the
village or its authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-203 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. Sewer service may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Superintendent.
The Department shall not supply server service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by
such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality
to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701)
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer services:
      (1)   For residential and commercial services; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application to the
village. The application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-204 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules and
regulations, hereinafter named in this article, shall be considered a part of
every application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a
part of the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without
further formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant
or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a
contract between the customer and the municipality to which said contract both
parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may
hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off
or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such
violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises
shall again be made, save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or
her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 3-205 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Utilities Superintendent, the property owner,
occupant, or lessee of any premises within 300 feet of any sewer main shall
without delay cause the said building to be connected with the Sewer System and
equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected
shall be connected with the Sewer System at the time of its construction. In
the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or
refuse, within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her
to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the municipality, to make such connection, the governing body
shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof
against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 3-206 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 3-207 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 3-208 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent may, at his or her
discretion, finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installation
shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and specifications for such installation prescribed by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the said rules, regulations, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
   (B)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in the amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specification of the A.S.T.M.
and W.P.C.F Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (D)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (E)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specification of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Utilities Superintendent before installations.
   (F)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Utilities
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-209 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee which shall compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may
direct the customer to hire a plumber or qualified individual to tap the main.
The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the
materials required as well as the services of a plumber or qualified individual
and shall pay all other cost of installation. In all cases, the Utilities
Superintendent, or his or her designated agent, shall be present during the
tapping of municipal sewer lines.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 249, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 3-210 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the same have been previously approved
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 3-211 SEWER RATES.
   The monthly sewer rates shall be set by the Village Board and shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk during
office hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 3-212 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; USE WITH NEW BUILDINGS; EXAMINATION AND TESTING.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and testing by the Utilities Superintendent, and
meet all requirements of this article.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-213 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Utility Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewer treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Utility Superintendent will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F, and 150°F (0 and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Utility Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Utility Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Utility Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Utility Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume or flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the village, shall be subject to the review of the Utility
Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the Utility Superintendent,
the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as
may be necessary to:
            1.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight;
            2.   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Utility Superintendent and no construction of such facilities
shall be commenced until said approval are obtained in writing.
   (F)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section, and which in the judgment of
the Utility Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the Utility Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the waste;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
above in this section. If the Utility Superintendent permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Utility
Superintendent, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws.
   (G)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters of dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Utility
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (H)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (I)   When required by the Utility Superintendent, the owner of any property
services by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Utility Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of the
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24 hours composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.)
   (K)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to a rate as set by the
governing Board and paid by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-214 DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS.
   No authorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest and prosecution pursuant to the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-214) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-215 INSPECTION OF SEWER WORKS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Utility Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
Utility Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Utility Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
3-213(I).
   (C)   The Utility Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-216 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except
§ 3-214, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each 24-
hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-216) (Ord. 346, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 3-217 PLACEMENT OF CULVERTS.
   (A)   Placement of culverts across storm water drainage ditches. Any
property owner within the zoning jurisdiction of the village who places, has
placed, or whose predecessor in title placed, a culvert across any storm water
drainage ditch shall comply with the standards hereafter set forth. Any
existing culvert that shall obstruct the free flow of storm water in said
drainage ditches shall be required to be removed and replaced in accordance
with this section and the owner of property adjacent to said ditch shall pay
the cost thereof.
   (B)   Storm water drainage ditch obstruction; defined. Any culvert placed
across a storm water drainage ditch that, due to its level of placement or its
physical condition, prevents rainwater from flowing freely along said drainage
ditch shall be deemed a STORM WATER DRAINAGE DITCH OBSTRUCTION.
   (C)   Storm water drainage ditch obstruction deemed a health and safety
hazard; notice to remove obstruction. If, upon examination by agents or
employees of the village, a storm water drainage ditch is found to be
obstructed by the placement or condition of any culvert, written notice shall
be given to the owner of land adjoining said obstruction to remove, repair, or
replace said culvert within 30 days from the receipt thereof at the owner’s
expense. The Village Board hereby determines that standing water in storm water
drainage ditches contributes to the infestation of mosquitoes and represents a
danger to children who may drown in standing water. The placement of a culvert
that creates standing water is determined to constitute a nuisance. Any culvert
removed, repaired, or replaced pursuant to this section shall comply with the
“culvert standards” established herein.
   (D)   Culvert standards defined; compliance therewith. Any culvert that
shall be installed, removed, repaired, or replaced shall have a minimum inside
diameter of 12 inches round or elliptical and shall be constructed of either
corrugated steel, corregated plastic, concrete, or plastic well casing.
Aluminum culverts of any shape shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Permit required; fee; stop work order; removal order upon failure to
comply. Any person who shall install, repair, or replace a culvert shall obtain
a permit from the Clerk of the village for $25. Said permit shall not be issued
until the Village Maintenance Superintendent certifies to the Clerk that the
culvert used to repair or replace an existing culvert complies with the
“culvert standards” set forth herein. Any person who shall install a culvert
without such a permit shall be required to uncover the same for an inspection
by said Village Maintenance Superintendent at the expense of the landowner
adjoining said culvert and shall pay a $25 permit fee. The certificate of the
maintenance personnel shall not represent nor shall it be construed or
interpreted to mean that the proposed level and location of said culvert will
not obstruct the storm water ditch.
   (F)   Placement of culverts. Any culvert placed across a storm water
drainage ditch shall be placed at such a level that storm water may freely flow
through it. The proper placement level shall be determined by the owner of land
adjoining said drainage ditch.
   (G)   Failure to remove obstruction; removal by village; cost assessed
against property. In the event the owner of land adjacent to an established
culvert fails to comply with the removal order set forth in division (C) above,
the village may remove the obstruction. Any damage to sidewalks or driveways
caused by such removal shall be the responsibility of the owner of land
adjacent to said culvert and the village shall not replace or repair such
sidewalk or driveway. Any cost incurred by the village in the removal of a
culvert pursuant to this section shall be assessed against the owner of land
adjacent to said culvert.
   (H)   Appeal; stay of order to remove. In the event any person feels
aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to division (C) above, such order may be
appealed to the Village Board by filing a notice of intent to appeal within 15
days of receipt of said order. If a notice of intent to appeal is filed, the
village shall take no action to remove said culvert until the appeal is heard
by the Village Board of Trustees. At such a hearing the Village Board shall
hear testimony from its employee as to why the culvert is viewed as an
obstruction. Thereafter, the party appealing the order may present evidence
that the culvert does not obstruct the stromwater drainage ditch. At the close
of evidence by the party appealing the order, village personnel shall be given
an opportunity to rebut evidence presented by appealing party. Upon close of
evidence, the Village Board of Trustees shall consider the evidence and render
a decision. If the order to remove is sustained, the appealing party shall have
30 days from the date the Village Board of Trustees acted to remove said
obstruction.
(Ord. 426, passed 9-8-2009)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
3-301   Operation and funding
   
3-302   Fire Chief
   
3-303   Membership
   
3-304   Fires
   
3-305   Distant fires
   
3-306   Fighting distant fires
   
3-307   Preservation of property
   
3-308   Impersonating firefighter
   
3-309   Power of arrest
   
3-310   Fire investigation
   
3-311   Ambulance service
§ 3-301 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and firefighters. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund
shall be at all times in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 17-718, 17-953) (Prior Code, § 3-301)
§ 3-302 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the governing body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders,
or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
governing body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of
the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the governing
body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to
the governing body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 3-303 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. The Fire Chief
shall appoint no more than 35 members, excluding EMTs, for each Fire Department
company subject to the review and approval of the Board of Trustees. All
vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code
or the laws of the state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The Secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the village for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and
other benefits. The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of
the Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in
an amount set by resolution.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a
policy of group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the
village’s active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such
person serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves.
      (2)   The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for
death from any cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to
a permanent form of life insurance at age 65.
      (3)   The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual
who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the
village.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 402, passed 2-6-2007; Ord. OR538-2021, passed 4-13-
2021)
§ 3-304 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 3-305 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Village Chairperson or Fire Chief, or pursuant to
any agreement with a Rural Fire District for mutual aid and protection, such
fire equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the governing body
as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limit to extinguish a
reported fire.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 3-306 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Chairperson or Chief of the Fire Department, or some person
authorized to act for such Chief, and in so doing may take such fire equipment
of the municipality as may be designated by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
§ 3-307 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or
checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
§ 3-308 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter structure for
the purpose of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter or bona
fide entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Neb. RS 28-609) (Prior Code, § 3-308)
§ 3-309 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire, and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
§ 3-310 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate, or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess $50.
All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
specially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him
or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506) (Prior Code, § 3-310)
§ 3-311 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The village shall provide ambulance service to its residents through an
agreement with the county. The ambulance service shall be funded and operated
according to the terms of the agreement between the village and the county.
(Prior Code, § 3-311)
ARTICLE 4: PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
3-401   Operation and funding
   
3-402   Injury to property
Swimming Pools
   
3-415   Operation and funding
   
3-416   Admission charge
   
3-417   Rentals
   
3-418   Rules and regulations
   
3-419   Unlawful entry; violation; penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3-401 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance
of the municipal park, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue
from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing body shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the municipal
parks and other recreational areas of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952) (Prior Code, § 3-401)
§ 3-402 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 3-415 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing person, property, and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing
body shall manage the swimming pool. The governing body shall have the power
and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and sue employees
as it may deem necessary, and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
(Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952) (Prior Code, § 3-403)
§ 3-416 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Village Board may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The said charges shall be on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall also posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for
public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-404)
§ 3-417 POOL RENTALS.
   The Village Board shall have the authority to rent the municipal swimming
pool to such organizations and other persons as it may its discretion see fit.
The Board shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified life guards to be in attendance
during the rent period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-405)
§ 3-418 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules,
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. It may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-406)
§ 3-419 UNLAWFUL ENTRY; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to at any time enter or go upon the
swimming pool premises, including the pool, pool aprons and decks, bath houses,
equipment houses, and all fences, except entry by persons during the normal
hours in which the swimming pool is operating and open to the public and in
accordance with the rules and regulations governing swimming pool operation and
management, and except entry by persons responsible for and while engaged in
the operation and maintenance of the swimming pool and entry by persons
entering under the authorization or permission of the Swimming Pool Manager or
Village Board. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-407) (Ord. 136, passed 4-1-1986)
ARTICLE 5: LANDFILL
Section
   
3-501   Garbage/solid waste collection, operation and funding
   
3-502   Municipal landfill; regulations
§ 3-501 GARBAGE/SOLID WASTE COLLECTION, OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village no longer owns or operates a landfill within the village. All
solid wastes collected are disposed of at a processing facility or landfill
disposal site complying with all requirements of the state’s Environmental
Protection Act, being Neb. RS 81-1501 to 81-1532. The Village Board of Trustees
have determined that to secure the general comfort, health, and general
property of the village and its citizens the village will continue with what
has been a contractual service for many years from a properly licensed garbage
collector contractor. The contract for the village solid waste collection will
be determined by the Village Board of Trustees and the bid process. The Village
Board of Trustees will have established a contract with the approved
contractor. This contract will describe the terms as agreed upon between the
contractor and the Village Board, such as the schedule of collection routes,
days of collection, providing of receptacles, and what is allowed for removal
and disposal. The contractor shall provide for all vehicles proof of liability
insurance and commercial comprehensive general liability with coverage
satisfactory to the village. The contractor will provide adequate evidence of
workers compensation insurance. The village shall pay the contractor all sums
due to him or her in accordance with the agreed schedule of rates and the
contractor shall be responsible for all landfill charges. All payments to the
contractor will be paid in accordance to how the utility collection is
scheduled. The village will include the garbage billing into the normal monthly
billing utilities, unless otherwise specified within the contract. The Village
Board will set by resolution all charges for rendered services.
(Prior Code, § 3-501) (Ord. 508-2011, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; REGULATIONS.
   No trees or grass shall be dumped in the landfill except in that part of the
landfill designated as the tree dump. All burnables taken to the tree dump
shall be cut into pieces which can be easily handled by Utilities Department
workers. All papers taken to the landfill shall be bundled or bagged securely.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
ARTICLE 6: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
3-601   Short title
   
3-602   Definitions
   
3-603   Interlocal cooperation
   
3-604   Civil Defense Coordinator/Director
   
3-605   Duties of the Emergency Management Coordinator
   
3-606   Deputy Emergency Management Coordinators
   
3-607   Authority of Chairperson
   
3-608   Disaster basic plan
   
3-609   Technical or skilled assistance
   
3-610   Violation
   
3-611   Penalty
§ 3-601 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Civil
Defense Ordinance of Kenesaw, Nebraska”.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
§ 3-602 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Village Board of Kenesaw, Nebraska.
   CIVIL DEFENSE. The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by
fire, flood, earthquake, or other natural causes. These functions include
firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue,
engineering, air raid warning services, communications, radiological, chemical,
and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from restricted area,
emergency welfare services, civilian war aid, emergency transportation,
existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection, temporary
restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian
protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the
preparation for and the carrying out of the foregoing functions. Nothing herein
shall be constructed to prevent or prohibit department heads from administering
and operating their own departments.
   CIVIL DEFENSE EMERGENCY. An emergency declared by the President of the
United States or Congress pursuant to applicable federal law finding that an
attack upon the United States has occurred or is anticipated and that the
national safety therefore requires the invocation of the emergency authority
provided for by federal law. Such EMERGENCY also shall exist in the event of an
enemy attack or other hostile action within the state, or when the President
determines that any attack has been made upon or is anticipated within a
designated geographic area which includes all or a part of the state. Any such
EMERGENCY shall terminate in the manner provided by federal law, or by
proclamation of the Governor, or by resolution of the Legislature, terminating
such an emergency.
   CIVIL DEFENSE VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified, and
appointed by the Civil Defense Director and assigned to participate in civil
defense activity.
   CIVIL DEFENSE WORKER. Include any full-time or part-time paid, volunteer, or
auxiliary employee of this state or other state, territories, possessions, or
the District of Colombia, of the federal government, or any neighboring
country, or any political subdivision thereof, or of any agency or organization
performing civil defense services at any place in this state subdivision
thereof, and shall also include instructors and students in recognized
educational programs where civil defense services are taught.
   COORDINATOR/DIRECTOR. The Civil Defense Director of the Kenesaw Emergency
Management Agency, appointed as prescribed in this article.
   DISASTER. Occurrence of imminent threat of wide-spread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind emergency
action to avert danger or damage, volcanic activity, epidemic, air
contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot, civil
disturbance, or hostile military or paramilitary action.
   LOCAL CIVIL DEFENSE EMERGENCY. May be determined only by the principal
executive officer of the village. It shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the Village
Board. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local
disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be
filed promptly with the Village Clerk and the state’s Civil Defense Agency.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Adams County, and each village and city within Adams
County, Nebraska shall be deemed to be a LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   REGULATIONS. Include plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to civil defense.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing services, equipment, or facilities to the civil
defense organization without remuneration.
(Prior Code, § 3-603) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-603 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board may, with a majority vote of the
Village Board, enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with the
Hastings/Adams County Civil Preparedness Agency. This may be for the purposes
of administrative support, emergency/disaster operations support, funding
support, and for the purpose of providing for a civil preparedness organization
which utilizes combined emergency planning along with coordinated planning and
actions with Adams County, the City of Hastings and other villages within the
county. General supervision of the Village Emergency Management Coordinator
under provisions of interlocal agreement shall rest with the Hastings/Adams
County Civil Preparedness Director. Such agreement upon approval shall be in
force as outlined within the guidelines of said resolution and is not intended
to relieve the village from and legal responsibilities as outlined in federal
or state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-604) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-604 CIVIL DEFENSE COORDINATOR/DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby created the position of the Emergency Management Coordinator
for the village. The Emergency Management Coordinator shall under the
supervision of the Village Board and be directly responsible for the planning,
coordination, administration, and operation of all civil defense activity in
the village. The Village Emergency Management Coordinator shall also be
responsible to plan, coordinate, and work with the Hastings/Adams County Civil
Preparedness Agency in all matters relating to any interlocal agreements,
funding where state or federal funds are utilized, and in other matters that
may affect the disaster response capabilities of Kenesaw or Hastings/Adams
County. The Coordinator shall be appointed by the Village Board of Kenesaw
based upon input from the emergency services in Kenesaw and the Hastings/Adams
County Civil Preparedness Agency. The Director shall, within limitations of his
or her volunteer position, devote time to the duties of the position and shall
be qualified in accordance with criteria established by the Governor. The
Kenesaw Emergency Management Coordinator may also be appointed as a Deputy
Director for Adams County with the primary area of responsibility to be
outlined by the Hastings/Adams County Civil Preparedness Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-605) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-605 DUTIES OF THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   In addition to any other duties prescribed by the Chairperson of the Village
Board and approved by the Village Council, the Emergency Management Coordinator
shall:
   (A)   Coordinate the recruiting of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities currently utilized by the village area;
   (B)   Develop and coordinate plans for the immediate use of all facilities,
equipment, manpower, and other resources of the village for the purpose of
minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property, and protecting and
restoring governmental services and public utilities necessary for public
health, safety, and welfare;
   (C)   Negotiate agreements with owners of buildings and other properties for
the use of such facilities as public shelters, which such agreements shall be
presented to the Village Board for its approval;
   (D)   Educate the civilian population through public information programs,
as to actions necessary and required for the protection of lives and property
in case of any enemy attack, or other disaster, either impending or present;
   (E)   Conduct public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation of
the village civil defense forces, and to familiarize them with procedures and
operations;
   (F)   Assist and support the activity of all other public and private
agencies engaged in any other civil defense activity; and
   (G)   Develop in cooperation and in collaboration with other public and
private agencies within this state, mutual aid agreements for reciprocal civil
defense aid and assistance in case of disaster too great to be dealt with
unassisted. Such agreements shall be consistent with the state, county, and
local civil defense plans. The terms of all mutual aid arrangements
specifically relating to the village shall be embodied in writing and subject
to the approval of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-606) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-606 DEPUTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATORS.
   The Village Emergency Management Coordinator shall have the authority to
appoint one or more volunteer Deputy Emergency Management Coordinators to act
in his or her absence.
(Prior Code, § 3-607) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-607 AUTHORITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall be responsible for meeting the dangers of the
village and its inhabitants presented by disasters and shall have general
direction and control of the disaster response and the Kenesaw Emergency
Management/Civil Defense Office, subject however to the terms of any interlocal
cooperation agreement.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be generally responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this article. In order to effect the policy and purposes of this
article, the Chairperson may issue proclamations and make, amend, and rescind
the necessary orders, rules, and regulations to carry out the provisions of
this article.
   (C)   A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Chairperson. It
shall be declared by proclamation of the Chairperson upon the determination or
finding that a disaster has occurred or that the occurrence of threat thereof
is eminent. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of
seven days except by or with the consent of the Village Board. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster emergency
shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with
the Village Clerk and the State Civil Defense Agency. The effect of a
declaration of a local disaster emergency shall be to activate the response and
recovery aspects of any and all applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster or civil defense plans and to authorize the furnishing of aid and
assistance thereunder.
   (D)   All proclamations issued this article shall indicate the nature of the
disaster, the area or areas threatened, and the conditions which have brought
it about or which make possible the termination of the state of disaster
emergency. All proclamations shall be disseminated promptly by means calculated
to bring its contents to the attention of the general public. It shall be
promptly filed with the State Civil Defense Agency through the Hastings/Adams
County Civil Preparedness, Local Civil Defense Agency, and the Village Clerk.
   (E)   In addition to any other powers conferred by law, the Chairperson may,
when and where reasonable and prudent under the circumstances:
      (1)   Suspend the provisions of any regulatory ordinance prescribing the
procedures for conduct of city business, or the orders, rules, or regulations
of any agency or department, if strict compliance with the provisions of any
such ordinance, order, rule, or regulation in any way prevents, hinders, or
delays necessary action in coping with the emergency;
      (2)   Utilize all available resources of the village government as are
reasonably necessary to cope with the disaster emergency;
      (3)   Transfer the direction, personnel, or functions of village
departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or
facilitating disaster response;
      (4)   Subject to any applicable requirements for compensation, commandeer
or utilize any private property if found necessary to cope with the disaster
emergency;
      (5)   Direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the population
from any stricken or threatened area within the village if the Chairperson
deems this action necessary for the preservation of life or other disaster
mitigation, response, or recovery;
      (6)   Prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation;
      (7)   Control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of premises therein;
      (8)   Suspend or limit the sale of dispensing, or transportation of
alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustibles; and
      (9)   Make provisions for the availability and use of temporary housing.
   (F)   To the greatest extent practicable, the Mayor shall delegate or assign
command authority by prior arrangement embodied in appropriate proclamations,
orders, rules, and regulations, but nothing shall restrict his or her authority
to do so by orders issued at the time of the disaster emergency. Where
circumstances dictate, the Chairperson shall exercise powers conferred upon him
or her by the section through the appropriate department heads.
(Prior Code, § 3-608) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-608 DISASTER BASIC PLAN.
   A comprehensive disaster basic plan shall be adopted and maintained by
resolution of the Village Board based upon the recommendations of the emergency
management staff and Hastings/Adams County Civil Preparedness Office. In the
preparation of this Plan, it is the intent that the services, equipment,
facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall be the duty of all
municipal departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the
plan and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times. The basic plan shall be considered supplementary to this article
and have the effect of law whenever a disaster as defined in this article has
been proclaimed. This plan shall be in accordance with state law and the state
plan. The disaster basic plan may be amended from time to time by resolution of
the Village Board, upon recommendation by the emergency management staff, and
Hastings/Adams County Civil Preparedness Office.
(Prior Code, § 3-609) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-609 TECHNICAL OR SKILLED ASSISTANCE.
   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not available
within the village government, the Emergency Management Coordinator shall seek
assistance from other persons outside of the government, but only upon the
advice and consent of the Chairperson. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also grant authority for the persons so assigned to
carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the occurrence of a disaster.
Services from persons outside of government may be compensated, or may be
accepted by the city on a volunteer basis.
(Prior Code, § 3-610) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-610 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
article or the regulations or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained
herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the civil
defense organization in the enforcement of the provisions of this article or
any regulations or plan issued thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-611) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
§ 3-611 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article, or
any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-612) (Ord. 207, passed 7-9-1993)
ARTICLE 7: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
3-701   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
3-702   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
3-703   Deposit; all applicants applying for water, sewer, and garbage service
   
3-704   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
§ 3-701 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall not discontinue utility service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the municipality first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends and holidays
excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services,
such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination
shall be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B) Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by the
municipality, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the governing body. The governing body has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full. A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The governing body shall notify the domestic subscriber of
the time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C) This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-701) (Ord. 267, passed 11-4-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1603, 70-1604
§ 3-702 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 320, passed 11-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1601
§ 3-703 DEPOSIT; ALL APPLICANTS APPLYING FOR WATER, SEWER, AND GARBAGE SERVICE.
   (A)   All applicants applying for water, sewer, and garbage service shall
make a utility service deposit as a guarantee for the payment of all bills for
water, sewer, and garbage. Deposit charges will be set by resolution of the
Village Board and on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Such deposit
shall be refunded to the customer when service is no longer being furnished or
after one year if requested by resident, provided all water, sewer, and garbage
accounts have been in good standing without penalty and are paid in full.
   (B)   Utility service deposits shall be made to the Village Clerk before
moving into the property. If deposits are not made, service will be
discontinued. Before any termination of service, the Department of Utilities
shall first give notice by first class mail or in person to any domestic
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by
first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
A charge of $30 will be charged as a reconnection fee. The Department of
Utilities will reconnect utility services during normal office hours - Monday
through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Payment must be received prior to
reconnection of utility services.
(Prior Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 343, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 359, passed 2-5-2002;
Ord. 525-2019, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 3-704 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
through 70-1615 or this section; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-704) (Ord. 391, passed 11-4-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515.02
ARTICLE 8: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
3-801   Violation; penalty
§ 3-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-801) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES
      
3.   ENFORCEMENT
      4.   EXPENSES
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
4-101   Purpose
   
4-102   Definitions
§ 4-101 PURPOSE.
   The Village of Kenesaw, by this article defines its authority to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a
nuisance for its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the
health and sanitation of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Ord. 548-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 4-102 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   NUISANCE. A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting
to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value ofproperty in
the vicinity;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village, or on private property within the one-mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
(Neb. RS 17-555).
      (15)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and
equipment;
      (18)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer, or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a motor vehicle, all
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer. PROPERLY REGISTERED means
as required by Nebraska Statutes;
      (19)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth;
      (20)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
the village code.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
(Ord. 548-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
ARTICLE 2: ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES
Section
   
4-201   Abatement services and notice procedure for nuisances
§ 4-201 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The village shall appoint an individual or
organization to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the village.
Said individual or organization shall be identified as the Nuisance Officer and
said appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The village may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
Village Clerk shall, upon direction of the Village Council, notify Nuisance
Officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The village may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by the village code. The Nuisance
Officer shall then view the property or area for any violations of the
nuisances of the village. The Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private
property for said audit unless granted permission by the resident/owner of
suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or village law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the
Village Governing Board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation
that a nuisance exists as stated in Article 3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 548-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
ARTICLE 3: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
4-301   Enforcement procedures
§ 4-301 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the governing
body by the Village Nuisance Officer, or the board of health or upon the
governing body’s own action. The governing body then may declare by resolution
a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation. The nuisance, health, and/or
sanitation ordinances may be enforced by: (1) Village administrative
procedures; (2) Penal prosecutions through the courts, and/or; (3) By civil
procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures, or any combination of these
procedures, may be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation
ordinances of the village.
   (A)   Administrative procedure. The village may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk notifies the
Nuisance Officer to serve notice upon the violators.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (A)(4) herein.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village or county of the village, and by conspicuously posting the notice on
the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date
of service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal
service or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the village within five days after
notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the
period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk shall fix a date of
said hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner and occupant of the nuisance property by certified and regular
mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing, or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer, to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village Attorney or the
enforcement officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the
notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer, or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the Governing Board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the Governing Board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the Governing Board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
Mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the abatement
of the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed
during until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed.
In cases of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a
nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
   (B)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation violations are not abated within 15 days that the notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the Village Clerk has not received a
request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the
code violation.
      (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the village.
      (2)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
      (3)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
   (C)   Civil court procedure. The Governing Board may instruct by resolution
the Village Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a nuisance.
Said civil suit may commence after 15 days notice has been served as stated in
Article 2 of this chapter, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any
other enforcement procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
(Ord. 548-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
ARTICLE 4: EXPENSES
Section
   
4-401   Expenses
§ 4-401 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the village has affected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through
contract with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge, or control of such property. The billing shall be
calculated at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative
fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office, by regular
U.S. Mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance,
health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the
appropriate county in Nebraska.
(Ord. 548-2022, passed 11-8-2022)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
4.   PARKING
      
5.   MINIBIKES
      
6.   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
      
7.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this article, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, 1943, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Include that portion of the municipality embraced within,
and the area of public streets enumerated as follows: the east one half of all
blocks adjoining the west side of Smith Avenue and the west one-half of all
blocks adjoining the east side of Smith Avenue lying between the south line of
Elm Street and the north line of Pine Street; also Lots 66 to 71 and Lots 123
to Lots 127, both inclusive, Original Town, as shown on the recorded plats of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 219, passed 9-6-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-201   Turning “U” turns
§ 5-201 TURNING “U” TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where a sign is posted indicating
that U-turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-201)
ARTICLE 3: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
5-301   Littering
   
5-302   Speed limits
   
5-303   Speed; near schools
   
5-304   Speed; electronic detection
   
5-305   Reckless driving
   
5-306   Unnecessary stopping
   
5-307   Passing; intersections
   
5-308   Riding; outside vehicle
   
5-309   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
5-310   Driving in sidewalk space
   
5-311   Emergency; regulations
   
5-312   Police; enforcement
   
5-313   Police; refusal to obey
   
5-314   Littering and damage to village streets and alleys
   
5-315   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection system
   
5-316   School crossing zones; designation
   
5-317   School crossing zones; overtaking and passing
   
5-318   Accident; driver’s duties
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-301)
§ 5-302 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the residential district, and 20
mph within the business district, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance,
appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185, 60-6,186, 60-6,190) (Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 5-303 SPEED; NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours, to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be unlawful for
such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop signs are
located at, or near, such school premises.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) (Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 5-304 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
   (A)   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based
upon the visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
radio microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as
competent evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal
proceeding when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the municipality
may offer in evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic
speed measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor
vehicle, the municipality shall prove the following:
      (1)   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
      (2)   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under
such conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
      (3)   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement
was qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the
device; and
      (4)   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the
measuring device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an
arrest being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working
order.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves, or other electronic device, or had received a radio message from
the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a description of
the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) (Ord. 5-304-83, passed 10-10-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,192
§ 5-305 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182, 60-6,213, 60-6,215) (Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 5-306 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166, 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-306)
§ 5-307 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking a vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,136) (Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 5-308 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,179) (Prior Code, § 5-308)
§ 5-309 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or
toy vehicle shall attach himself, herself, or the bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, skis, or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall
be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding
upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or toy vehicle to cling
or attach himself, herself, or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated
by him or her.
Prior Code, § 5-309) (Ord. 220, passed 9-6-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 5-310 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,178) (Prior Code, § 5-310)
§ 5-311 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The Village Marshal is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Neb. RS 81-2005) (Prior Code, § 5-311)
§ 5-312 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind of streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (Prior Code, § 5-312)
§ 5-313 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-313)
§ 5-314 LITTERING AND DAMAGE TO VILLAGE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag trash or trees or tree limbs or
other debris over and across the streets and alleys of the village or to cause
any damage to the said streets and alleys thereby.
(Prior Code, § 5-314) (Ord. 175, passed 1-2-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 5-315 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required to
have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
      (1)   All children up to six years of age being transported in such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2006, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
      (2)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age being
transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection system. This division
(A) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is equipped with an occupant
protection system or is required to be equipped with restraint systems pursuant
to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as such standard existed on
January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles, and any motor vehicle
designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier which is not
equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (B)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (A) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (C)   (1)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be
subject to the requirements of division (A) above when operating such
authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
      (2)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the
requirements of division (A) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a
parade or exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in
accordance with applicable state law or local ordinances and resolutions.
      (3)   All persons being transported by a motor vehicle operated by the
holder of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such
motor vehicle’s occupant protection system.
(Ref. 60-6,267 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (A)
above, shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (A)(2) above shall be accomplished only as
a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-315) (Ord. 190, passed 5-7-1991; Ord. 347, passed 8-7-2001;
Ord. 392, passed 11-4-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,268
§ 5-316 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-316) (Ord. 306, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 5-317 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the governing body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) (Ord. 307, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,134.01
§ 5-318 ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road, or
private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number, and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave
in a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) above. In
addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
(Neb. RS 60-696)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident and
ascertain the identity of all persons involved;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the license number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to the person struck or the
occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 5-318) (Ord. 366, passed 7-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-697
ARTICLE 4: PARKING
Section
Parking Generally
   
5-401   Areas
   
5-402   Time limit
   
5-403   Obstructing alley
   
5-404   Fire hydrants and stations
   
5-405   Maximum time limit
   
5-406   Abandoned vehicles on private property
   
5-407   Snow removal and maintenance
   
5-408   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
5-409   Handicapped or disabled persons; removal of unauthorized vehicle;
penalty
   
5-410   Semi-trailer parking
   
5-411   Designated semi truck and/or trailer parking area defined
Violations Bureau
   
5-435   Designation of the office of the Village Clerk as Violations Bureau
   
5-436   Notification of violations
   
5-437   Presumption
   
5-438   Penalties and fees
   
5-439   Disposition of penalties and fees collected
   
5-440   Notification by mail
   
5-441   Failure to pay before complaint is filed
   
5-442   General policy
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 5-401 AREAS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-401)
§ 5-402 TIME LIMIT.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking or stopping of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution, shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-402)
§ 5-403 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-403)
§ 5-404 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Neb. RS 39-672) (Prior Code, § 5-404)
§ 5-405 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (Prior Code, § 5-405)
§ 5-406 ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, park, place, permit to remain, or
have any motor vehicle or parts thereof which is in a junked or inoperative or
abandoned condition, whether attended or not, or for the owner of any such
vehicle or for the owner or occupant of any property to allow, permit, or
suffer the same, for a period in excess of one month on any private property;
provided, that this section shall not apply to any such vehicle or parts
therefrom which are kept in a completely enclosed building. A motor vehicle
which does not have affixed thereto a valid current state motor vehicle license
will be presumed to be junked, inoperative, or abandoned within the terms of
this section.
   (B)   Any person who violated this section shall be punished as provided in
Article 7 of this chapter, and as part of the judgment of conviction, all such
inoperative, abandoned, or junked vehicles or parts thereof shall be ordered
confiscated and destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 5-406) (Ord. 115, passed 2-1-1977; Ord. 250, passed 4-1-1997;
Ord. 322, passed 5-2-2000)
§ 5-407 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street or
alley in the municipality at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three
inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period unless the snow has been
removed within that time.
   (B)   The municipal police may order any street or alley, or portion
thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be
given by personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such
street or alley, or by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys.
Such signs shall be posted not less than four hours prior to the time that the
vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter, and
such vehicle may be removed and parked, under the supervision of the municipal
police, to a suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 17-557) (Prior Code, § 5-407)
§ 5-408 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of the article, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-416) (Ord. 166, passed 11-1-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,165
§ 5-409 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE;
PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this article if there is posted aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in
zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction. The display on a motor
vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or
disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state
shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped
parking infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-425) (Ord. 197, passed 5-12-1992; Ord. 277, passed 12-2-1997;
Ord. 375, passed 7-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 5-410 SEMI-TRAILER PARKING.
   Semi-trailer parking is hereby prohibited on public property within the
village, with the exception of loading or unloading. This section shall not
apply to areas designated for truck parking. This section shall be enforced.
(Prior Code, § 5-427) (Ord. 396, passed 11-2-2004)
§ 5-411 DESIGNATED SEMI TRUCK AND/OR TRAILER PARKING AREA DEFINED.
   Parking shall be allowed on the north side of South Railroad or South Depot
Street from Smith Street to Forbes Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-428) (Ord. 396, passed 11-2-2004)
VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 5-435 DESIGNATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE VILLAGE CLERK AS VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The office of the Village Clerk is hereby designated as the Violations
Bureau for the village. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to accept
penalties and fees herein designated from violators desiring to plead guilty or
no contest in accordance with the proceedings set forth.
(Prior Code, § 5-408) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-436 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Violators of the provisions of this article may be given notice in the form
of an official police ticket attached to the offending motor vehicle, which
notice shall require violators to appear forthwith at the office of the Village
Clerk. Such official police ticket may contain a statement that a complaint and
warrant of arrest shall be issued to the violator if such notice is disregarded
for a period of 20 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-409) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-437 PRESUMPTION.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of the provisions of this article,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in
violation of any of the said provisions, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint was at the time of said parking the registered owner of
said vehicle, shall constitute a prima facie rebuttable presumption that the
first registered owner of said vehicle was the person who parked or placed said
vehicle at the place where, and for the period during which, said violation
occurred.
(Prior Code, § 5-410) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-438 PENALTIES AND FEES.
   Any violator of the provisions of this article appearing at the office of
the Village Clerk and desiring to plead guilty or no contest and waive court
appearance shall present the official police ticket and pay the office of the
Village Clerk a fee which shall be set by the Village Board and available for
public inspection at the village office during normal office hours. The
violator shall have this privilege until a complaint is filed in County Court
which shall not be before 20 days have elapsed after the issuance of the police
ticket.
(Prior Code, § 5-411) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-439 DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES AND FEES COLLECTED.
   The office of the Village Clerk shall make a record of all violators showing
the name of each violator, the time and date of each violation, the disposition
of the case, and the penalty assessed. Such record shall be given to the
Village Marshal. All money collected by the office of the Village Clerk under
this section shall be paid to the Village Treasurer to be accounted for
according to law.
(Prior Code, § 5-412) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-440 NOTIFICATION BY MAIL.
   In the event such violator fails to respond to the notification provided for
in §
5-436 for at least ten days, the attorney for the village may notify the
violator by mail of:
   (A)   The violation;
   (B)   The presumption provided for in §
5-437;
   (C)   That should he or she fail to make payment of the penalty provided for
in §
5-438 or show cause why the Village Attorney should not proceed further on the
matter within ten days from the date of the letter, a complaint will be filed
with the County Court against him or her; and
   (D)   That from the date of filing the complaint and for ten days thereafter
he or she may appear in County Court and pay a penalty per violation plus court
costs and if he or she should fail to do so, a warrant may be issued for his or
her arrest. Said penalty amount shall be set by the Village Board and available
for public inspection at the village office during normal office hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-413) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-441 FAILURE TO PAY BEFORE COMPLAINT IS FILED.
   (A)   In the event such violator fails to respond to the notification
provided for in §
5-436, the Attorney for the village shall cause a complaint to be filed with
the County Court against such persons.
   (B)   From the date of filing the complaint and for ten days thereafter, the
person against whom the complaint is filed may appear in County Court and pay a
fine per ticket plus court costs. Said penalty amount shall be set by the
Village Board and available for public inspection at the village office curing
normal office hours.
   (C)   Upon ten days or more passing after the complaint is filed, the
Village Attorney may apply for a warrant for the arrest of the violations.
(Prior Code, § 5-414) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-442 GENERAL POLICY.
    From ten days after the filing of the complaint, the general penalty
section for this chapter will apply to the violation charged.
(Prior Code, § 5-415) (Ord. 150, passed 9-1-1987)
ARTICLE 5: MINIBIKES
Section
   
5-501   Unlawful operation
   
5-502   Emergencies and parades
   
5-503   Public lands
   
5-504   Traffic laws inapplicable
§ 5-501 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the municipality. For purposes of this
article, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel
and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of less
than 45 cubic centimeters displacement, a seat height less than 25 inches from
the ground, or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the
manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Neb. RS 60-6,347, 60-6,352) (Prior Code, § 5-501)
§ 5-502 EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this article during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational, or community service
organization.
(Neb. RS 60-6,348) (Prior Code, § 5-502)
§ 5-503 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-678) (Prior Code, § 5-503)
§ 5-504 TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   The provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 1, 3, 4, 5, and 17 shall not
be applicable to the owners and operators of any minibike.
(Neb. RS 60-6,347) (Prior Code, § 5-504)
ARTICLE 6: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
5-601   Defined
   
5-602   Operation
   
5-603   Equipment, requirement
   
5-604   Prohibitions
   
5-605   Competition
   
5-606   Accident report
   
5-607   Penalty
   
5-608   Enforcement
§ 5-601 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   GOLF CART and UTILITY TRANSPORT VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle
which:
      (1)   Is 60 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or four low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Has a seat for operator use only with no passengers, unless it is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger; and
      (5)   Has handle bars or other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Prior Code, § 5-601) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 418, passed 11-6-2007;
Ord. 424, passed 8-4- 2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624
§ 5-602 OPERATION.
   All-terrain vehicles (ATVs), golf carts, and utility transport vehicles
(UTVs) be and hereby are regulated with the village as follows.
   (A)   Operator requirements. The operator of any ATV, golf cart, or UTV
shall:
      (1)   Have a valid Class O operators license; and
      (2)   Proof of motor vehicle liability insurance coverage for the
vehicle. The person operating the said vehicle shall provide proof of such
insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days
of such request.
   (B)   Vehicle requirements. Every ATV, golf cart, or UTV shall be equipped
with:
      (1)   Fully operable headlights and taillights; and
      (2)   A bicycle safety flag attached to the rear of such vehicle,
extending not less than five feet above the ground; the said flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
Day-Glo in color.
   (C)   Operation. An ATV, golf cart, or UTV shall be operated:
      (1)   Only between the hours of sunrise and sunset and the vehicle’s
headlights and taillights shall be on; and
      (2)   No person shall operate said vehicle at a speed in excess of the
posted speed limit but, in no event in excess of 25 mph.
   (D)   Exceptions. ATVs, golf carts, and UTVs may be operated without
complying with divisions (A) through (C) above on streets and highways in
parades which have been authorized by the state or any board, commission,
department, or political subdivision of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 424, passed 8-4-2009)
§ 5-603 EQUIPMENT, REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 5-604 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass, or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-605) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 5-605 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted
from §§
5-603 to
5-607 of this article at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-606) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 5-606 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Prior Code, § 5-607) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 5-607 PENALTY.
   Any violations of §§
5-602 to
5-607 of this article which is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapter 60 may be
punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-608) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
§ 5-608 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission, shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
5-602 to
5-607 of this article.
(Prior Code, § 5-609) (Ord. 156, passed 11-3-1987)
ARTICLE 7: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
5-701   Violation; penalty
§ 5-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   DOGS
      
2.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
      
3.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
      
4.   PENALTY PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: DOGS
Section
   
6-101   License
   
6-102   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs, and service dogs: exempt from license tax
   
6-103   License tags
   
6-104   Owner defined
   
6-105   Proclamation
   
6-106   Uncollared
   
6-107   Running at large
   
6-108   Capture impossible
   
6-109   Keeping dangerous and vicious animals
   
6-110   Killing and poisoning
   
6-111   Barking and offensive behavior
   
6-112   Liability of owner
   
6-113   Impounding
   
6-114   Rabies suspected
   
6-115   Interference with village officer or employee: unauthorized removal of
impounded animal
   
6-116   Staffordshire terrier, pit bull, or part pit bull
   
6-117   Dangerous dogs; definitions
   
6-118   Dangerous dogs; restrained
   
6-119   Dangerous dogs; confined
   
6-120   Dangerous dogs; failure to comply
   
6-121   Dangerous dogs; additional regulations
§ 6-101 LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually on or before January 31 of
each year. The said license fee shall be delinquent on and after February 1 of
each year; provided, the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within
the corporate limits subsequent to January 31 of any year, shall be liable for
the payment of the license fee levied herein and such fee shall be delinquent
if not paid thereafter; and may be subject to a late fee, a first notice fee
and a second notice fee. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon
the payment of a license fee set by resolution of the governing body. Said
license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of
death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at
the time the application is made and upon printed forms provided for such
purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of
each dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a
rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented
when the license is applied for, and no license or tag shall be issued until
the certificate is shown. If any person is delinquent on or after February 1 of
any year, a late fee will be added to the license fee. If any person is
delinquent on or after March 1 of any year, a first notice fee will be added to
the late fee and the license fee. If any person is delinquent on or after April
1 of any year, a second notice fee will be added to the first notice fee, the
late fee, and the license fee.
(Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412) (Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 551-2022, passed
12-13-2022)
§ 6-102 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS: EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no license tax
shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog, or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of
the required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 6-101.01) (Ord. 308, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 6-103 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until January 31 following such licensing. In the event that a license tag
is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was
issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license
tax has been paid. All license fees and collections shall be immediately
credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 6-104 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
§ 6-105 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage, or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing
the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or
harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 6-106 UNCOLLARED.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be killed or impounded in the
municipal dog shelter by the municipal police.
(Neb. RS 54-604) (Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 6-107 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall
mean any dog found off the premise of the owner, and not under control of the
owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage,
or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 6-108 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 54-604) (Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 6-109 KEEPING DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any animal into the
village, which has, in another jurisdiction being judicially or
administratively determined to be a dangerous, potentially dangerous, vicious,
a nuisance, or a threat to the health or safety of human beings.
   (B)   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or allow to be in or upon any
premises owned or occupied by him or her to keep or have under his or her
control any dangerous or vicious animal.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, a DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL is any
animal which has bitten or attempted to bite any person or any animal which has
demonstrated conduct or behavior sufficient to place any person in reasonable
fear for his or her safety or for the safety of any child in his or her
possession or control. In determining whether a person’s fear was reasonable,
the court shall consider all circumstances, including:
      (1)   Whether or not the animal was, at the time of the victim’s
perception of fear, securely chained or on a leash or in a secure enclosure;
      (2)   The history of the animal’s behavior;
      (3)   The degree of harm the animal was physically capable of inflicting
upon the victim at that time; or
      (4)   Subsequent remedial measures, such as constructing a secure
enclosure or moving the animal outside of the village limits, shall not be
considered in determining the guilt of the accused by may be considered when
determining the penalty if the accused is adjudged to be guilty of the offense.
   (D)   Any person adjudged guilty of this provision shall be fined according
to whether his or her offense is a first offense or a second or subsequent
offense. Such fine amounts shall be set by the Village Board and shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk during
office hours.
   (E)   In addition to the foregoing fine, the court shall have the authority
to order that any dangerous or vicious animal be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 161, passed 5-3-1988; Ord. 541-2022, passed 1-18-
2022)
§ 6-110 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property
of another person, or to lace any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to municipal
police officers acting within their power and duty.
(Neb. RS 28-1008) (Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 6-111 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality. Upon the written
complaint of two or more affected persons from different households, filed
within any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk, that any dog owned by the
person named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise
violates the provisions of this section, the Utilities Superintendent or
Village Marshal shall investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the
situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog.
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the Municipal
Dog Shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 6-112 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602) (Prior Code, § 6-111)
§ 6-113 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Humane Officer to capture, secure, and
remove to the Heartland Pet Connection in a humane manner any dog violating any
of the provisions of this article. The Heartland Pet Connection of Hastings,
Nebraska, shall constitute the Heartland Pet Connection for the village. Any
dog so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with
a sufficient daily supply of food and fresh water.
   (B)   Unless it is reclaimed earlier by its owner, each impounded dog shall
be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of not less than six days
after public notice has been given in accordance with the provisions of this
article. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including description of any
significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by
its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of a fee which shall be
set by the Village Board and available for public inspection at the office of
the Village Clerk during office hours. The owner thereof shall then be required
to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72
hours after release.
   (C)   If any dog is not reclaimed after completion of the said period of
impoundment, the Humane Officer or his or her agent may dispose of the dog in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the said facility. If,
in the judgment of the Humane Officer, a suitable home can be found for any
such dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be delivered to that
person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this article. The
municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog held hereby after
completion of the said period of impoundment. Unless a suitable home can be
found for such dog, it shall be destroyed and buried in a summary and humane
manner prescribed by the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 172, passed 8-1-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 6-114 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this article which has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days. If
upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies at
the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (Prior Code, § 6-113)
§ 6-115 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF
IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to interfere with a village
officer or employee in carrying out his or her duties and enforcing village
ordinances for the control of domestic animals, including, but not limited to,
those described in §
6-110.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to release or remove any
animal from the village dog pound without specific authority therefor from an
officer or employee of the village.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. Each
failure to comply herewith for a period of 24 hours shall constitute a new
violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 164, passed 7-5-1988)
§ 6-116 STAFFORDSHIRE TERRIER, PIT BULL, OR PART PIT BULL.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, Staffordshire Terrier, Pit Bull, part
Pit Bull or other dangerous or vicious dogs shall be defined as any dog that is
an American Pit Bull Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire
Bull Terrier, Bull Terrier, Dogo Argentina, Presa Canario, Cane Corse, American
Bulldog, Chows, Dobermans, Rottweiler, American Bandagge, any wolf hybrid, or
any dog displaying the majority of such physical traits of any one or more of
the above breeds (more so than any other breed), or any dog exhibiting those
distinguishing characteristics which substantially conform to the standards
established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club for any of the
above breeds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor more than
one Staffordshire Terrier, Pit Bull, part Pit Bull, or vicious dogs in the
village.
   (C)   The owner of any Staffordshire Terrier, Pit Bull, part Pit Bull, or
other dangerous or vicious dog shall, when dog shall be outside of the
residential structure, restrain and/or properly kennel said dog so that the dog
is not allowed to run free or at large.
   (D)   The municipal police shall have the authority to pick up and remove
any such Staffordshire Terrier, Pit Bull, part Pit Bull, or other dangerous or
vicious dogs in violation of the above, and deliver the said dog(s) to the
Animal Shelter.
   (E)   Any person who violates this section shall be punished as provided in
§ 6-401 of this code. (Prior Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 162, passed 5-3-1988; Ord.
323, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 540-2022, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 6-117 DANGEROUS DOGS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of a municipality.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being of public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially DANGEROUS DOG by
an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in §§ 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of
the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Include:
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 176, passed 12-5-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 6-118 DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRAINED.
    No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash no
longer than six feet and properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal from
biting.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 176, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 547-2022, passed 11-8-
2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 6-119 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also
protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a
warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and
that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 176, passed 12-5-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 6-120 DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this article. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this article.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 176, passed 12-5-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620
§ 6-121 DANGEROUS DOGS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the municipality from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this article.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 176, passed 12-5-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
6-201   Resisting officer
   
6-202   Discharge of firearms
   
6-203   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
6-204   Firecrackers
   
6-205   Window peeping
   
6-206   Public indecency
   
6-207   Obstructing water flow
   
6-208   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
6-209   Abandoned automobiles
   
6-210   Violence on a service dog; interference with a service dog
   
6-211   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
   
6-212   Sexual predators; residency restrictions
§ 6-201 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any municipal police officer
when such officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)
§ 6-202 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (Prior Code, § 6-202)
§ 6-203 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-207) (Prior Code, § 6-203)
§ 6-204 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale or
discharge any fireworks in the village, except as provided herein, except it
shall be lawful for any person within the village to possess and discharge
permissible fireworks as defined by the state statutes and the State Fire
Marshal.
§ 6-205 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door, or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
§ 6-206 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person over 18 years of age to commit any act
of public indecency. PUBLIC INDECENCY shall be defined as an act of sexual
penetration; an exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to
affront or alarm any person; or a lewd fondling or caressing of the body of
another person of the same or opposite sex, where the conduct may reasonably be
expected to be viewed by members of the public.
(Neb. RS 28-806) (Prior Code, § 6-206)
§ 6-207 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)
§ 6-208 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
from any growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the village is prohibited, except that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)      For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 409, passed 2-6-2007; Ord. 505-2011, passed 10-11-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 6-209 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   Generally. It is hereby expressly found and determined that unlicensed
motor vehicles, or parts or portions therefrom, or wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled, inoperable, or abandoned vehicles which are parked, permitted to
remain, stored, or accumulated on any private premises are unsightly and
unhealthful in that such provide harborage for disease-carrying insects and
vermin, degrade the aesthetic beauty of the village, and constitutes a nuisance
to the citizens and residents of the village; provided, the storage or
accumulation of such motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies, and motor vehicle
chassis or parts therefrom in completely enclosed buildings shall not be
considered a nuisance. It shall be unlawful, and a misdemeanor, for any person
in charge or control of any property within the village, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow any unlicensed, inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled vehicle to remain on such property
longer than 30 days total in any 365-day period. It shall be unlawful for any
person in charge or control of any property within the village, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow any motor vehicle or
trailer which has been unregistered for more than 30 days to remain on such
property for any period of time. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in
an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the lawful operation
of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner.
   (B)   Notice of removal.
      (1)   Notice of removal may be given to the owner or occupant of the
private property upon which such vehicle is located and such notice shall
request that said vehicle be permanently removed from said property within 30
days of the date of said notice and the notice shall advise that upon failure
to comply with the notice to remove, the village or its designee may issue a
citation or shall undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied
against the owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the property.
      (2)   Upon the notice to remove, the owner of the vehicle and the owner
or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all
of them shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and
disposition by the village, pursuant to state law and applicable Nebraska
Administrative Code provisions, the owner or occupant of the private property
where the same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 6-209) (Ord. 284, passed 4-7-1998; Ord. 337, passed 10-3-2000)
§ 6-210 VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she intentionally injures, harasses, or threatens to injure or harass, or
attempts to intentionally injure, harass, or threaten a dog that he or she
knows or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she intentionally impedes, interferes, or threatens to impede or
interfere, or attempts to intentionally impede, interfere, or threaten to
impede or interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is
a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a
deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited
person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in divisions (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid
or discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired, or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog
shall create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was
initiated or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech, or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing, with
or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary means
of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, lip reading, sign language, finger spelling, or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including, but not limited to, having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(Prior Code, § 6-221) (Ord. 309, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
§ 6-211 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle
to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is
located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes:
         (a)   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily consumable as a
beverage;
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way;
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in §§ 53-123.04(3)
and 53-123.11(1)(C), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   That is open or has a broken seal; or
         (c)   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Prior Code, § 6-222) (Ord. 338, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.08
§ 6-212 SEXUAL PREDATORS; RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The State Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 to 29-4017.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 to 71-1923.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 to 29-4014.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-
4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-223) (Ord. 400, passed 11-7-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003, 29-4013
ARTICLE 3: ANIMALS GENERALLY
Section
   
6-301   Abandonment, neglect, and cruelty; definitions
   
6-302   Abandonment, neglect, and cruelty; law enforcement officer; powers;
immunity
   
6-303   Abandonment, neglect, and cruelty; penalty
   
6-304   Pitting; definitions
   
6-305   Pitting; prohibited
   
6-306   Pitting; spectators prohibited
   
6-307   Unusual animals prohibited
   
6-308   Cattle drives prohibited
   
6-309   Running at large prohibited
   
6-310   Fowl controlled within municipality; permit process
§ 6-301 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making effective
provision for its food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
animal’s health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. The term shall not
include an uncaptured wild creature.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any city or
village, or any other public official authorized by the village or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008
§ 6-302 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; POWERS;
IMMUNITY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may
issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1012
§ 6-303 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; PENALTY.
   A person who abandons, cruelly mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal is
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009
§ 6-304 PITTING; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) (Ord. 192, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004
§ 6-305 PITTING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting,
cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another. Nor shall any
person knowingly receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly own, use, train, sell, or
possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting. Nor shall any person
knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) (Ord. 192, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1005
§ 6-306 PITTING; SPECTATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited in §
6-305.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) (Ord. 192, passed 5-7-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1005
§ 6-307 UNUSUAL ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the village, except that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane
society, or carnival from displaying unusual animals as exhibits, or to
prohibit any wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate permits from the
state’s Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitating or sheltering unusual
animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away,
transfer, or import into the village any unusual animal as defined in this
section, excluding a public zoo from doing business with another public zoo.
   (C)   In the event the county wide law enforcement determines an unusual
animal is being owned, kept, or harbored by any person in violation of this
section, the said Sheriff’s Department may have such person or persons
prosecuted for such violation and shall order such person or persons to remove
said unusual animal from the village, or destroy it. Such order shall be
contained in a written notice to remove or destroy said unusual animal within
ten days and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. If the owner or person keeping or harboring such unusual animal
after the expiration of ten days from the receipt of said notice and no appeal
is taken, the county wide law enforcement shall have such unusual animal
destroyed.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTICATED. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion and control
of an owner or person keeping or harboring said animal, and accustomed to
living in or near human habitation without requiring extraordinary restraint
for the protection of humans or unreasonably disturbing such human habitation.
      UNUSUAL ANIMAL. Any poisonous, wild, or potentially dangerous animal or
reptile not normally considered domesticated, and shall include animals and
reptiles specifically prohibited by the village, the state, and any federal
regulation or law. Additionally, the prohibition will include, but not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   Class mammalia; order carnivora, family felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, bobcats, and cougars), except commonly accepted
domesticated cats and hybrids involving the same; family canidae (such as
wolves, coyotes, and fox), except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving the
same; family mustelidae (such as weasel, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines,
mink, and badgers), except ferret; family procyonidae (such as raccoon); family
ursidae (such as bears); order primata (such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and
order chiroptera (such as bats);
         (b)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras, and their allies (elapidae,
hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (croctiladae, viperidae); boonslang and
kirkland’s tree snake; and gila monster (heleodermatidae); and
         (c)   Non-poisonous reptiles or snakes that will grow to more than six
feet in length at maturity.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) (Ord. 316, passed 5-4-1999)
§ 6-308 CATTLE DRIVES PROHIBITED.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a cattle drive along
any public street, alley, roadway, or other public thoroughfares within the
village limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CATTLE DRIVE. The movement by walking or running cattle along public
streets, alleys, roadways, or other public thoroughfares in groups of one or
more.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 394, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 6-309 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No domestic fowl nor any horse, colt, mule, donkey, burro, nor any cow,
bull, ox, calf, bison, meat cattle, or any animal of the ox or bovine kind, nor
any sheep, swine, goat, or other livestock animal shall be permitted to run or
be at large within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) (Ord. 394, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 6-310 FOWL CONTROLLED WITHIN MUNICIPALITY; PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Except as permitted by divisions (E) and (F) below, it shall be
unlawful for any person, corporation, firm, or other entity, in the capacity of
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent thereof, to keep or maintain
within or without the village limits any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
pheasants, quail, pigeon, ostriches, or any other similar fowl within 300 feet
of any residence, dwelling, business house, or commercial structure located
within said village limits.
   (B)   The keeping or maintaining of such fowl as described in division (A)
above shall be considered to be a specific nuisance, in addition to those
identified in §§
4-201 and
4-202, and may be abated in accordance with the provisions of §
4-203.
   (C)   In addition to the abatement procedure identified in division (B)
above, the Village Board of Trustee’s shall be authorized to maintain an action
for abatement of such activity in the County District Court, against the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent thereof, who is deemed to be in violation
of division (A) above. Such action is authorized under the powers granted in
Neb. RS 17-123.
   (D)   Furthermore, any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent thereof
who shall violate or refuse to comply with the provisions of division (A)
above, or the enforcement thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in accordance with the specific penalty
structure as set out below in division (E) below. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
   (E)   (1)   Penalty structure for violations:
         (a)   First offense: $100 fine plus court costs;
         (b)   Second offense: $200 fine plus court costs; and
         (c)   Third offense: $500 fine plus court costs and loss of permit,
and removal of the animals.
      (2)   The fine amounts may be paid by wavier at the County Court Office
on the second floor of the County Court House in Hastings, Nebraska.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above provisions of this section, the raising of
birds, such as chickens, ducks, pheasants, quail, pigeons, and geese or any
similar fowl for the purpose of this section, within the municipality may be
permitted, subject to compliance with the following conditions.
      (1)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   Permit fee. Any person desiring to keep fowl, as defined in
division (F) above, in the village or its zoning jurisdiction shall obtain a
permit from the village prior to acquiring the fowl. Application shall be made
to the Village Clerk and the fee for the permit shall be $25 per year or as
determined by the Board of Trustees resolution. The application shall be in
writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk for that purpose.
         (b)   Permit terms and expiration. Permits expire and become invalid
one year after date of issuance. A person who wishes to continue keeping fowl
shall have obtained a new permit on or before the expiration date of the
previous permit. No permit shall be assignable or transferable either as to
permitee, location, or species of animal.
         (c)   Application.
            1.   The application shall be made pursuant to the procedures and
requirements that are applicable at the time the person applies for the new
permit, which shall include:
               a.   Name and residence of the applicant;
               b.   Location of premises where fowl are to be kept;
               c.   Species of fowl to be kept;
               d.   Statement of the method in which offal, manure, and waste
material accumulating from such fowl will be sanitarily disposed of; and
               e.   An attached diagram or plat of premises, showing dimensions
of premises, location and dimensions of the enclosure, and the distance from
the residence building, and property lot line, on the same lot and on the
adjacent property.
            2.   Prior to the issuance of any permit for the keeping of fowl,
the Village Clerk shall have a proper investigation completed by the village
personnel of the facts set forth in the application for the permit and
determine whether said promises conform to the requirements of this chapter and
other ordinances of the village with respect to zoning and building
regulations, sanitation, and location of enclosures and shelters. No permit
shall be issued by the Village Clerk, after initial approval by the Village
Board of Trustee’s, until proper facilities shall be provided for the care and
protection of the fowl to be cared for on the premises and the location of the
premises is deemed to be proper and suitable for the keeping of such fowl and
the application has been approved as to proper zoning.
      (2)   Specific keeping/housing requirements.
         (a)   A person who keeps or houses fowl on his or her property shall
comply with all of the following requirements.
            1.   No more than six each of the following: chickens, ducks,
phesants, quail, pigeons; and no more than four each of geese may be kept on
any one zoning lot.
            2.   The principal use of the property shall be a single-family
dwelling.
            3.   No person shall keep fowl on a vacant or uninhabited tract of
land.
            4.   No person shall keep any rooster, peacock, or turkey.
            5.   No person shall slaughter any fowl within view of the general
public.
            6.   The fowl shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must
be kept in the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times. Fowl shall
be secured within a covered enclosure during non-daylight hours. Such covered
enclosure or coop shall contain at least four square feet of floor area per
fowl, and the fenced enclosure shall provide at least ten square feet of open
area per fowl; no coop shall exceed 120 square feet of floor area or exceed 12
feet in height.
            7.   A person shall not keep fowl in any location on the property
other than in the rear yard. For purposes of this section, REAR YARD means that
portion of the lot enclosed by the property’s rear lot line and the side lot
lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect with an imaginary line
established by the rear of the dwelling and extending to the side lot lines.
            8.   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located
closer than ten feet to any property line of any adjacent property.
            9.   All enclosures for the keeping of fowl shall be so constructed
or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being harbored
underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure. A covered enclosure
or fenced enclosure shall not be located closer than 40 feet to any residential
structure.
               a.   A covered enclosure for fowl shall be enclosed on all sides
and shall have a roof and doors. Access doors must be able to be shut and
locked at night. Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator- and
bird-proof wire of less than one inch openings.
               b.   The materials used in making a covered enclosure shall be
uniform for each element of the structure such that the walls are made of the
same material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any
windows or openings are constructed using the same materials. The use of scrap,
waste board, sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited. Covered
enclosures shall be well maintained.
               c.   Any enclosed fowl pen shall consist of sturdy wire fencing.
The pen must be covered with wire, aviary netting, or solid roofing.
         (b)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of fowl
that are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats,
mice, or other rodents shall be protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other
rodents from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
         (c)   Odors from all fowl, manure or other fowl/animal related
substances shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted
tract of land.
         (d)   Noise from any fowl shall not be loud enough beyond the
boundaries of the permitted tract of land at the property boundaries to disturb
persons of reasonable sensitivity.
         (e)   The permittee shall not allow the permittee’s fowl to roam off
the permitted tract of land. No dog or cat or other domesticated animal which
kills or attacks any fowl off the permitted tract of land will, for that reason
alone, be considered a dangerous or aggressive animal or the village’s
responsibility to enforce its animal control provisions.
      (3)   Waste removal/dead animal removal.
         (a)   The owner of any fowl shall keep all pens, enclosures, and
shelter structures wherein such fowl are kept in a clean and sanitary condition
so as not to give off offensive odors which are a source of discomfort to
persons residing in the vicinity thereof. The owner of any fowl or large
animals to accumulate or remain in the pens, enclosures, and shelter areas upon
which such fowl or reside or is confined in any manner which is conducive to
the breeding or attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or in
any manner which endangers the public health or safety or which creates an
unhealthy environment. The maintenance or permitting of any of the foregoing
conditions on any such lot or parcel of ground is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. The owner of any fowl shall in a sanitary manner remove or
dispose of all manure and waste materials accumulating from such fowl at least
once every seven days.
         (b)   If any fowl dies in the possession of any person in this
village, it shall be the duty of such person to cause the same to be at once
buried or otherwise disposed of. In the case the owner or person having charge
of any such fowl shall neglect or refuse to remove such dead fowl with in 24
hours after its death, the village employees shall cause the same to be removed
at the expense of such owner or person having charge of the fowl in the amount
of no less than $100 or as decided by the Board of Trustee’s resolution.
   (G)   Any violation of the provision of divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) shall
subject the violating party to the penalties identified above in divisions (B),
(C), (D) and (E) in addition, the village may revoke any permit granted under
this section.
   (H)   A person who has been issued a permit shall submit the premises so
licensed, for inspection upon request by any police officer or code enforcement
officer of the village.
   (I)   A conditional use permit may be issued as determined by the Board of
Trustees, to be comparable with the other uses permitted in this section,
compatible with the uses permitted in this section and consistent with the
intent of this section.
(Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000; Ord. 518-2016, passed 2-14-2017; Ord. OR537-2021,
passed 4-13-2021)
ARTICLE 4: PENALTY PROVISION
Section
   
6-401   Violations; penalty
§ 6-401 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or any person’s agent or servant who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, thereof shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   FIRES
      
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
3.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: FIRES
Section
   
7-101   Preservation of property
   
7-102   Disorderly spectator
   
7-103   Equipment
   
7-104   Interference
   
7-105   Obstruction
   
7-106   Driving over hose
   
7-107   Traffic
   
7-108   False alarm
   
7-109   Pedestrians
§ 7-101 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be
blown up, with explosives any building or structure during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 7-102 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire, and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 7-103 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle, or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 7-104 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 7-105 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of
the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 7-105)
§ 7-106 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 28-908, 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 7-106)
§ 7-107 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm.
   (B)   No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach, or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (Prior Code, § 7-107)
§ 7-108 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
§ 7-109 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
7-201   Fire prevention code
   
7-202   Fire code enforcement
   
7-203   Lawful entry
   
7-204   Violation notice
   
7-205   Fire limits defined
   
7-206   Fire limits materials
   
7-207   Permitted repairs
   
7-208   Ironclads prohibited
   
7-209   Fire prohibited
   
7-210   Use of overhead petroleum fuel storage tanks in residential area
   
7-211   Village excepted
   
7-212   Poisonous gases and explosives; storage and registration
   
7-213   Propane and flammable gases; storage and registration
   
7-214   Violation: penalty
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
Code and made a part of this article as though spread at large herein together
with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Three copies of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502) (Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 7-202 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 7-203 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 7-204 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 7-205 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: the east one-half of all blocks adjoining the west
side of Smith Avenue and the west one-half of all blocks adjoining the east
side of Smith Avenue lying between the south line of Elm Street and the north
line of Pine Street; also Lots 66 to 71 and Lots 123 to Lots 127, both
inclusive, Original Town, as shown on the recorded plat of said village.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 7-206 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
such noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said
structure will be reasonably fireproof.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-206)
§ 7-207 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
said person shall first submit an application to the Municipal Clerk to make
such repairs, alterations, or to add to any building and shall state on the
application that the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the
Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit, in the event that the repairs, alteration, or addition is to
involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for
a new building permit which shall state that the building, when completed,
shall be fireproof and made of non-combustible materials.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 7-208 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-208)
§ 7-209 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   Hereafter, burning will be allowed only on Wednesdays and Saturdays within
the village. Any and all combustible materials to be burned shall be placed in
a metal container with a metal screen over the top of said metal container. All
fires shall be extinguished at sundown. It shall be unlawful for any person to
burn any materials whatsoever on the pavement, curb or asphalt now existing in
the village or hereinafter to be installed.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) (Ord. 187, passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 554-2023, passed 2-14-
2023)
§ 7-210 USE OF OVERHEAD PETROLEUM FUEL STORAGE TANKS IN RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner of real estate, or tenant thereof
in any residential area of the village to place in use or use an overhead
petroleum fuel storage tank, including storage tanks for gasoline, diesel fuel,
kerosene, or any other liquid petroleum product.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) (Ord. 170, passed 3-7-1989)
§ 7-211 VILLAGE EXCEPTED.
   The village and its employees shall be excepted from this article in its
application to the burning of material at the village landfill area where trees
are disposed of. Fires in this location are permitted at any time as the
village or its employees deem necessary in the absolute discretion. Only
village employees shall be allowed to start these fires.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) (Ord. 170, passed 7-2-1991)
§ 7-212 POISONOUS GASES AND EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous
gases within the municipality shall register such information with the
Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The transfer of such explosives
or gases to another person within the municipality shall require the person
receiving such explosives or gases to register the transfer and the new
location of the explosives and gases with the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of the new location with the Municipal Clerk.
This section shall not apply to on-premises storage of 50 gallons or less of
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuels or vehicles licensed to transport
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuels.
(Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233) (Ord. 501-2010, passed 3-7-2010)
§ 7-213 PROPANE AND FLAMMABLE GASES; STORAGE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep within the
municipality any form of propane, liquefied petroleum gas, or other flammable
gas in an amount over 100 gallons for any period of time, or add to, enlarge,
or replace any facility used for the storage of such gases, must first get
permission from the Fire Chief and shall store and use the same as directed by
NFPA 54 and NFPA 58, as the same may be amended, or such other federal, state,
and local regulations which may be enacted from time to time. The applicant
shall provide the name of the gas, place of storage, amount of gas stored, and
other information as may be required by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The municipality may, at any time, adopt supplemental standards which
are more restrictive than the above referenced standard, either by ordinance or
by resolution. For any application where permission is granted, the governing
body may prescribe such additional rules, regulations, and precautionary
actions as it deems necessary.
   (C)   The permit requirement for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this section; provided, however, that any such present use
which is discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a
permit.
(Ord. 501-2010, passed 3-7-2010)
§ 7-214 VIOLATION: PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this article, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined no more than $100 on each such offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-212) (Ord. 187, passed 7-2-1991)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-301   Violation; penalty
§ 7-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 341,
passed 10-3-2000)
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITION
      
2.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      
3.   SIDEWALKS
      
4.   STREETS
      
5.   CURB AND GUTTER
      
6.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITION
Section
   
8-101   Definition
§ 8-101 DEFINITION.
   The following definition shall be applied throughout this chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Section
   
8-201   Maintenance and control
   
8-202   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
8-203   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
8-204   Obstructions
   
8-205   Permitted obstructions
   
8-206   Excavations
   
8-207   Weeds
   
8-208   Signs and canopies
   
8-209   Overhanging branches
   
8-210   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
8-211   Acquisition of property; appraisal
   
8-212   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
§ 8-201 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 8-202 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms thereof, except that such
property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer,
shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. (Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) (Ord. 222, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 245, passed 7-2-1996;
Ord. 310, passed 11-10- 1998; Ord. 405, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503.01
§ 8-203 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it shall
be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms thereof.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If the
fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the sale
shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-202.01) (Ord. 405, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503.02
§ 8-204 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public ground,
and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this article. Said trees, shrubs, and their
roots may be removed by the municipality at the expense of the owner of the
property upon which the tree or shrub is located, should the owner fail or
neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
firm, or corporation to obstruct or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings,
structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 8-205 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons receive approval from the
governing body. A suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained
within the public space which is being worked upon.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 8-206 EXCAVATIONS.
   Persons engaged in any construction, demolition, or excavation on or across
any village-owned property or right-of-way shall be required to backfill any
excavation, pack the same, and return it to grade at the conclusion of said
work. Failure to do so constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine of
up to $100 for each day said excavation is left open, after notification given
by the village to close said excavation.
(Prior Code, § 8-204.01) (Ord. 286, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 8-207 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds; provided, any weeds growing in excess of eight inches on any
sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section. In the event
that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting said sidewalk space within
the municipality is a nonresident of the municipality or cannot be found
therein, the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or
control of such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no
one within the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty
of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the
notice on the premises and then to cut, or cause the weeds thereon to be cut,
as therein provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing
body. The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
§ 8-208 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained approval from the governing
body. All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley,
or other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there
will be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling
from other causes. No sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained which
extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in such
a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon
the written order of the governing body, any person owning or occupying the
premises where such a sign, canopy, poster, or signboard is located, shall
cause the same to be removed within the time limit specified on such notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
§ 8-209 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least seven and one-half feet above the surface of said street or
walk. Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets
or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the governing body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
from the Utilities Superintendent stating that the municipality will remove
said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements herein provided, if said resolution is not
complied with. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county
in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (Prior Code, § 8-207)
§ 8-210 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the governing body has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Prior Code, § 8-208) (Ord. 229, passed 7-11-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 8-211 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has
been performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) (Ord. 230, passed 7-11-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
§ 8-212 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipality shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been prepared
and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional
engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of an architect,
professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of an architect or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $86,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance by the municipality of professional services for itself
if the municipality appoints a Municipal Engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-
3401 to 81-3455, who is in responsible charge of architectural or engineering
work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 through 81-3453.
(Prior Code, § 8-210) (Ord. 311, passed 11-10-1998; Ord. 339, passed 10-3-2000;
Ord. 408, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449, and 81-3453
ARTICLE 3: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
8-301   Kept clean
   
8-302   Beneath
   
8-303   Repair
   
8-304   Construction by owner
   
8-305   Municipal construction
   
8-306   Construction by petition
§ 8-301 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Neb. RS 17-557) (Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 8-302 BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between the lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have
been obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by him or her, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the governing body
may require applicant to furnish a bond to the municipality as obligee for the
benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason
of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 8-303 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may construct and repair
sidewalks, or cause the construction and repair of sidewalks, in such manner as
the Chairperson and Board of Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense
thereof on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication; and
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Neb. RS 13-312)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)
§ 8-304 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The governing body shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause shall appear why said permit should be denied. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct, or cause to be constructed, said sidewalk at any other
location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade, or
elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation
indicated by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 8-305 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523) (Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 8-306 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this article upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the municipality an agreement
to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service
fee and the cost of the construction of the sidewalk, and that the cost of such
construction including the engineering service fee and all other incidental
construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate
along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the
petitioner gives and grants to the municipality the right to assess and levy
the costs of such construction against the freeholder’s real estate abutting
the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The
total cost of such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and
specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
ARTICLE 4: STREETS
Section
   
8-401   Names and numbers
   
8-402   Crossings
   
8-403   Streets and alleys; opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
8-404   Excavation
   
8-405   Driving stakes
   
8-406   Mixing concrete
   
8-407   Harmful liquids
   
8-408   Heavy equipment
   
8-409   Pipe lines and wires
   
8-410   Construction assessment
   
8-411   Vacating public ways
§ 8-401 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 8-402 CROSSINGS.
   The governing body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent, such street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the governing body shall deem necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, said Municipal Clerk shall refer such
application to the Utilities Superintendent who shall investigate and make his
or her recommendation to the governing body. Action by the governing body on
such application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)
§ 8-403 STREETS AND ALLEYS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property, unless the municipality reserves title in the
ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the
municipality, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon
such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
municipality.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
municipality reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If
title is retained by the municipality, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the municipality.
      (4)   When the municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the municipality shall, within 30 days after the
effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance
with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is
located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following.
         (a)   There is reserved to the municipality the right to maintain,
operate, repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the
property is vacated there.
         (b)   There is reserved to the municipality, any public utilities, and
any cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on or below
the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time
title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public
or the abutting properties and to enter the premises to accomplish such
purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 376, passed 7-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-559
§ 8-404 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless permission is granted by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing such excavations. Any person making an
excavation shall, after the work is completed, put the street in as good, a
condition as it was before the excavation was made. All excavations, where
sidewalk, curb, gutter, or paved or gravelled street have been cut, shall be
backfilled with dampened excavated or similar material and mechanically
compacted equal to 100% of that of the adjacent undisturbed soil.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 8-405 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first obtaining permission
from the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-405)
§ 8-406 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-406)
§ 8-407 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-407)
§ 8-408 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant again the breaking or damaging of such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it shall
be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any paved
street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that
bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having
lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so
as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and machines move
along paved or unpaved streets, the Village Marshal is hereby authorized and
empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles,
structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-
casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than
seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1, and April 15; provided, that
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery having
protuberances which will not injure the streets; and it shall be permissible to
use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to
slide of skid.
(Neb. RS 60-6,131) (Prior Code, § 8-408)
§ 8-409 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Any
public service company granted a right-of-way for the erection and maintenance
of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect
and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances
at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by the governing body.
Such poles, wares, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be
removed or relocated by said companies at their own expense when requested to
do so by the governing body. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution
of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk shall notify any and all
companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving
notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body shall designate another
location as closely as possible where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains,
pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a
manner that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system;
poles, wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with
travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys
of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-409)
§ 8-410 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvement, as may be authorized
by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue, alley, or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed,
or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate, per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524) (Prior Code, § 8-410)
§ 8-411 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean
those losses or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in
common with the rest of the village or public at large, even though those
losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree than the rest of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of such
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)    A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)    A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a Special Commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way. The appointees of the Special Commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the Commission shall use the following
rule: an abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-411) (Ord. 377, passed 7-9-2002)
ARTICLE 5: CURB AND GUTTER
Section
   
8-501   Cutting curb
   
8-502   Culvert required
§ 8-501 CUTTING CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit  from the governing
body therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform
the Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall
be the Utilities Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut
the paving under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
governing body or the Municipal Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close
the opening made, he or she shall inform the chief street official, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening. It shall be discretionary with the governing body to order the
Utilities Superintendent, under the supervision and inspection of the Municipal
Engineer or the committee of the governing body on the streets and alleys, to
do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to
the party who obtained such permit.
   (C)   The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the
paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued
by the governing body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the
Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the governing body for all
paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot
cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the municipality
for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the
work is done by the municipality. In the event the municipality elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit
retained by the municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of
the Utilities Superintendent or of the committee of the governing body on
streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the
applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
municipality with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by
the governing body in a sum set by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 8-502 CULVERT REQUIRED.
   In order to provide proper and adequate drainage, all driveways constructed
shall require at least a 12-inch diameter culvert installed. Dip-type driveways
shall also be allowed, but in no case shall any driveway be constructed which
will impede the flow of water down the gutter of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
8-601   Violation; penalty
§ 8-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-601) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   BUILDING PERMITS
      
2.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING PERMITS
Section
   
9-101   Building permits
   
9-102   Building permits: required
   
9-103   Fences or screen walls
   
9-104   Building regulations; plans, specifications, plats, and reports;
municipal officials; duty
   
9-105   Construction of private drive
   
9-106   Regulation of private swimming pools
§ 9-101 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done, or in a residentially-zoned district, to erect a fence of screen wall,
shall file with the Building Inspector an application for a building permit
pursuant to this section and Chapter 11, Article 1. The application shall be in
writing on a form to be furnished by the Building Inspector for that purpose.
Every such application shall set forth the legal description of the land upon
which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or
occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the
owner, architect, and contractor, and such other information as may be
requested thereon. If the application, plans, and specifications are in
conformity with the zoning requirements, and all other applicable ordinances
thereto, the Zoning Inspector shall issue the said applicant a permit upon the
payment of the permit fee set by resolution of the governing body. If the
structure shall be a conditional use, the specifications and plans shall first
be approved by the County Planning Commission and then by the governing body.
Whenever there is a discrepancy in any building code adopted by reference, the
provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 183, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 9-102 BUILDING PERMITS: REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor or other person engaged in the
actual work of erecting, constructing, repairing, enlarging, demolishing, or
relocating any building, dwelling, or (in a residentially-zoned district) any
fence or screen wall, to proceed with the work until the owner or other
authorized person has obtained a permit as required in §
9-101. The Building Inspector shall order cessation of any work started before
the issuance of a permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-102) (Ord. 183, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 9-103 FENCES OR SCREEN WALLS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      DECORATIVE FENCE. A fence constructed of a material or combination of
material which by design is intended to be aesthetically appealing. It may be
solid, excluding view and passage and may consist of wood, decorative concrete
block, wrought iron or a combination of materials, but excluding chain link or
other woven wire, plastic type, snow fence or other foil-type fencing.
      FENCE OR SCREEN WALL. An open or closed structure, anchored to the
ground, excluding a building, or retaining wall, used to enclose all or part of
a tract of land for the purpose of preventing passage and/or view beyond the
fence line.
   (B)   The maximum height of any fence within residential district shall be
72 inches for side and rear yard enclosures and 48 inches for front yard
enclosures, and fences may be placed on a property line. Fences exceeding the
heights set forth hereinafter, however, or of a material other than as set
forth hereinafter, shall require the granting of variance.
      (1)   Front yard. A maximum 48 inches high decorative or chain link fence
may enclose the front yard from the front building wall line of the residence
to the front property line and may be placed on the side and front property
lines.
      (2)   Side and rear yard. A decorative or chain link fence of a maximum
height of 72 inches may enclose the side or rear yard of the property front the
front building wall line of the residence on the side and rear yard property
lines except as provided in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Corner lot - reverse frontage. On a corner lot, the rear lot line
which abuts the side yard of an adjoining interior lot, the front yard fence
requirements of the interior lot shall apply.
   (C)   Barbed wire or electric fence/hot fence shall not be permitted in a
residential district.
   (D)   All fences and screen walls shall be constructed structurally sound,
shall have a neat and finished appearance, shall be straight and true and
maintained in good structural condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 183, passed 10-2-1990; Ord. 550-2022, passed 12-13-
2022)
§ 9-104 BUILDING REGULATIONS; PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS, AND REPORTS;
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-
3401 to 81-3445.
(Neb. RS 81-5,148) (Prior Code, § 9-104) (Ord. 312, passed 11-10-1998; Ord.
410, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 9-105 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DRIVE.
   (A)   Application for construction of private drive. Before any person, firm
or corporation constructs a private drive onto any public street or alley, an
application snail first be made to the Village Board for a permit for such
construction. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25 and a
performance bond of $500.
   (B)   Issuance of permit. Upon receipt of the application, the Village Board
shall appoint a village employee or the Village Engineer to investigate the
same and make a report to the Village Board. Upon receipt of such report, the
Board will, at a regular or special meeting, either approve or reject such
application. If the application is accepted, the Board will issue a permit for
such construction, setting forth the following terms and conditions for
issuance of the permit:
      (1)   The date of me permit;
      (2)   The date of expiration of the permit;
      (3)   The installation location;
      (4)   The kind of material to be used in the construction;
      (5)   The thickness of material to cover to be installed;
      (6)   The type and thickness of the culvert to be installed;
      (7)   The required diameter and length of culvert; and
      (8)   The contractors name and phone number.
   (C)   Village inspection and approval. Upon completion of the work and prior
to the use of the driveway, the applicant shall notify the Village Clerk and
the village shall cause such installation to be inspected and approved. If the
installation has been completed according to the permit, the person inspecting
the installation shall approve such installation in writing. If such
installation is not approved, the driveway may not be used as an approach to a
village street and shall be barricaded by the village until such defect in
construction has been corrected. In addition, the performance bond shall be
forfeited to the village. In the event that the installation is approved, the
performance bond shall be returned to the applicant upon written acceptance of
the installation.
   (D)   Defective driveway approaches. When the village discovers that a
driveway approach to a village street is cracked, broken, or otherwise
deteriorated to me extent that it is causing or is likely to cause damage or
injury to any person or damage to the adjacent village street, the Village
Board shall instruct the Village Clerk to notify the owner of such driveway
approach, by certified mail or personal service, to repair or replace such
damaged driveway approach within 30 days of such notice.
   (E)   Failure to correct. In the event that the owner fails to correct such
defects pursuant to such notice, the village may contract to have the work
done. After completion of the work, the Clerk shall provide notice of the cost
of such repair or replacement to the owner of the adjacent property. Such
notice shall state that the village will assess the cost to me adjacent
property unless a request for hearing is made within ten days of the notice. If
no request for hearing is made or if the Village Board conducts a hearing at
the request of the adjacent property owner and after such hearing determines
that an assessment should be made, the cost of such repair or replacement shall
be assessed against the adjacent property.
(Ord. 425, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 9-106 REGULATION OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Swimming pool definition. PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL means any constructed
or assembled structure that is not publicly owned intended for swimming,
recreational bathing, or wading. This includes in-ground, above-ground, on-
ground and fixed-in-place wading pools. Hot tubs and spas with a hard cover are
exempt from this section as long as the cover is only open when the hot tub or
spa is in use and lid remains locked when not in use.
   (B)   Swimming pool location. All private swimming pools shall be located in
the back yard or side yard. Private swimming pools are not permitted in front
yards. No pool shall be located over a utility easement.
   (C)   Swimming pool enclosure required. Every outdoor pool, spa or hot tub,
as regulated under the Uniform Plumbing Code, shall be completely surrounded by
a fence or wall not less than 48 inches in height, which shall be so
constructed as not to have openings, holes, or gaps larger than four inches in
any dimension, except for doors and gates; and if a picket fence is erected or
maintained, the horizontal dimension shall not exceed four inches. Hot tubs and
spas are not required to have fencing if they have locking tops and are kept
locked at all times when not in use. A dwelling or accessory building may be
used as part of such enclosure. All gates or doors opening through such
enclosure shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device
located at least 45 inches above grade level for keeping the gate or door
securely closed at all times, except that the door of any dwelling which forms
a part of the enclosure need not be so equipped. The provisions of this section
shall be applicable to all outdoor pools which have a depth of 18 inches or
greater and a diameter of nine feet or greater, as regulated under the Uniform
Plumbing Code. No person either as owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant, or
licensee, in control of the property having such pool shall fail to provide and
maintain such fence or wall as herein provided.
   (D)   Swimming pool retroactivity. The lack of a minimum enclosure as herein
described, on any existing pool, is hereby deemed to be a serious public safety
hazard and will also be considered a nuisance condition. The owner of the
property, upon which such a pool is located, shall comply with the enclosure
requirements of this section within 30 days after date of notification to
comply.
   (E)   Swimming pool discharge system. Draining of said swimming pools, spas,
or hot tubs must not be onto adjoining property. There shall be no draining of
said swimming pools, spas, or hot tubs into the sanitary sewer of the village.
Drainage may be permitted into the storm sewer provided the chemicals contained
in the said swimming pools, spas, or hot tubs are first diluted. All chemicals
for said swimming pools, spas, or hot tubs must be stored in a secure area.
   (F)   Swimming pool enforcement and penalty for violation of section. Any
person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each and every offense. The
Village Board hereby appoints, in addition to police officers, the Board
Chairperson, Village Clerk, and Utility Superintendent to enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 552-2023, passed 2-14-2023)
ARTICLE 2: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
9-201   Definition
   
9-202   Prohibition
   
9-203   Determination and notice
   
9-204   Hearing and appeal
   
9-205   Emergency
   
9-206   Special assessments
   
9-207   Building regulations: prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
   
9-208   Outdoor storage containers
§ 9-201 DEFINITION.
   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this article, is hereby defined to mean
and include any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure: which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of faulty construction or any other
cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any
part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
§ 9-202 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)
§ 9-203 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the building inspector, the fire official, the health
official, or the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall
thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of
such determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall
serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within
60 days from the date of receipt.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
   “To                                        (owner-occupant of premises) of
the premises known and described as                                        .
   “You are hereby notified that                                       
(describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be
an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by
                                       . The causes for this decision are
                                                                                                              
(here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Utilities
Superintendent may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)
§ 9-204 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing, to the Municipal
Clerk, request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the
date of receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail. If the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If
after the five-day period the owner has not begun work, the governing body
shall proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may
appeal such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the governing body shall be stayed. Where the
municipality has not adopted a building code, the state statutes relating to
bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-204)
§ 9-205 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the fire or
health official to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-205)
§ 9-206 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01) (Prior Code, § 9-206) (Ord. 193, passed
5-7-1991)
§ 9-207 BUILDING REGULATIONS: PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not containing more than a weighted average
of 0.25% lead when used with respect to the wetted surfaces of pipes, pipe
fittings, plumbing, fittings, and fixtures.
(Neb. RS 71-5301) (Prior Code, § 9-207) (Ord. 160, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 167,
passed 11-1-1988)
§ 9-208 OUTDOOR STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE CONTAINER. A fully enclosed, detached and self-supporting
structure, which by itself is incapable of motion or movement. The container
must be manufactured or assembled off-site and transportable, by means other
than its own power, to a location where it is set into place on a graded
surface of concrete, asphalt, or gravel and not upon a foundation or wheels. It
shall be made of metal or other stable, durable and acceptable material and
shall not include a foundation, electricity, plumbing or other mechanical
systems as part of its assembly or use.
   (B)   Permit requirement. A conditional use permit may be granted for the
use outdoor storage containers in the designated districts, provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   Number. Outdoor storage containers are limited to one container per
property in the Residential District. Outdoor storage containers are limited to
two containers per business or property in the TA, Agriculture, Commercial and
Industrial Districts.
      (2)   Location. Containers shall be located to the rear 50% of the site.
Containers shall not be located in any required setback or yard area, required
landscape area, required drive aisle, driveway, or parking area. Containers
shall not encroach upon spaces necessary to satisfy the minimum parking
requirement, nor shall they block, impede, or divert traffic in or access to
emergency, snow removal, circulation and fire lanes. Containers shall not be
stacked upon one another and shall be located an appropriate distance from all
structures, in accordance with the Fire Code.
      (3)   Condition. The exterior of the storage containers shall be kept
free of rust, holes, dents, or other corrosion and shall be painted or
otherwise maintained such that they are consistent with the character of
adjacent buildings, and secured at all times.
      (4)   Use. At no time shall an outdoor storage container be used as a
place of business or residence, nor shall a container house, store, or contain
goods, products, or materials other than those that are accessory and essential
to dairy on-site use and operation of the principal building or business
requesting the conditional use permit.
      (5)   Time period. Permitted conditional use permits for storage
containers shall be allowed for one year. Renewals are subject to Planning
Commission and Village Board approval. Storage containers must be removed no
later than ten working days after the expiration of the permit.
      (6)   Exemptions. Temporary use of construction trailers or outdoor
storage containers at a building site is exempt from these restrictions;
provided that no temporary use shall exceed six months’ duration.
(Ord. 503-2011, passed 4-5-2011)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
9-301   Violations: penalty
§ 9-301 VIOLATIONS: PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 9-301) (Ord. 341,
passed 10-3-2000)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
2.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
3.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
4.   MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
      
5.   FRANCHISES
      
6.   RAILROADS
      
7.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
8.   TOBACCO
      
9.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
10-101   Definitions
   
10-102   License required
   
10-103   Location
   
10-104   Dwellings
   
10-105   License displayed
   
10-106   License renewal: municipal powers and duties
   
10-107   Licenses: municipal powers and duties
   
10-108   Owner of premises
   
10-109   Employer
   
10-110   Minors
   
10-111   Credit sales
   
10-112   Original package
   
10-113   Minor’s presence
   
10-114   Hours of sale
   
10-115   Sanitary conditions
   
10-116   Hiring minors
   
10-117   Consumption in public places or places open to the public:
restrictions
   
10-118   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession: general prohibitions:
exceptions
   
10-119   Catering licenses
   
10-120   Licensed premises; inspection
§ 10-101 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to
51-1,122.
(Neb. RS 53-103) (Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 10-102 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (Prior Code, § 10-102)
§ 10-103 LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain,
manage, or hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling
at retail any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital,
or home for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children;
provided, this prohibition shall no apply to any location within such distance
when the said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic
liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club, or
restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May 24, 1935. No alcoholic
liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within
300 feet from the campus of any college within the municipality.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177) (Prior Code, § 10-103)
§ 10-104 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (Prior Code, § 10-104)
§ 10-105 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (Prior Code, § 10-105)
§ 10-106 LICENSE RENEWAL: MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the state’s Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the governing body to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application for a license,
and while such application is pending, the licensee may continue all license
privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If
such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date of such area,
the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one
year.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between January 10
and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of
the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within
the municipality, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class
C licenses shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license art
filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk by three or more residents of the
municipality on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the
governing body shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the
license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this
section, ths governing body may request a licensee to submit an application as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Prior Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 10-108-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 412, passed 2-
6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, Neb. RS 53-135.01
§ 10-107 LICENSES: MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail or
craft brewery licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
state’s Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new
license to sell alcoholic liquor a retail or a craft brewery license, the
governing body may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative
to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail or craft brewer licenses to
sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons fc premises within its
jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the state’s Liquor Control
Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees and craft brewery licensees as
provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and pay the same, after the license has been
delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04 (Citizen Complaints), it
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the state’s
Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor.
Such order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission
within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with
the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided
for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after such hearing
the governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of their
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission
from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a retail or craft brewery license issued or renewed by the
Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee upon receipt
from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee, if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(6)(b) the fee
is payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by this municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 0-109-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 331, passed 10-
3-2000; Ord. 379, passed 7-9-2002; Ord. 412, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-132
§ 10-108 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or state statute.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (Prior Code, § 10-110)
§ 10-109 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (Prior Code, § 10-111)
§ 10-110 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, or make a gift of,
any alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor,
or other person who is mentally, physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (Prior Code, § 10-112)
§ 10-111 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (Prior Code, § 10-113)
§ 10-112 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks or other
containers except, in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-115) (Ord. 198, passed 5-5-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 10-113 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 10-116)
§ 10-114 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as
alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
of the licensed establishment. OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold as retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of
the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein.
 
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquor (except beer and wine)
Secular days 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale     6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On sale       
Sundays      12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale     12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
On sale
Beer and wine
Secular days 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale     6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On sale       
Sundays      6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale     6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On sale
 
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 10-117-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 195, passed 11-
5-1991)
§ 10-115 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-118)
§ 10-116 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)
§ 10-117 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the state’s Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee
while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 330, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186(1), 53-186.01
§ 10-118 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the assessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 246, passed 7-2-1996; Ord. 378, passed 7-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 10-119 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
prescribed in this section. The catering license shall be issued for the same
period and may be renewed in the same manner as the retail license, craft
brewery license, or farm winery license.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 3-132.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
liquor license jurisdiction, may cancel a catering license for cause for the
remainder of the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person
whose catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court of the
county in which the local governing body is located.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee to be paid under
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 169, passed 11-1-1988; Ord. 231, passed 7-11-1995;
Ord. 278, passed 12-2-1997; Ord. 329, passed 10-3-2000; Ord. 80, passed 7-9-
2002)
§ 10-120 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTION.
   The governing body shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees. If it is found that any such licensee is
violating any provision of this article, the state’s Liquor Control Act, or the
rules and regulations of the state’s Liquor Control Commission, or is failing
to observe in good faith the purposes of this article or the act, the license
may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an
opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 411, passed 2-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
ARTICLE 2: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
10-201   Regulation
   
10-202   Hours of solicitation
   
10-203   Exception
§ 10-201 REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and company responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application
for and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall made to the
Municipal Clerk, and shall contain all necessary information and documents
required for protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes, and other rules and regulation which the governing body deems
appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be
subject revocation for good and sufficient cause by the municipal police.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (Prior Code, § 10-201)
§ 10-202 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solid salesperson or peddler to solicit any
individual between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident/residents of the premises solicited. It
shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson, or peddler to
solicit without proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)
§ 10-203 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person/persons selling
produce raised within the county, or wholesale salespersons soliciting
merchants directly, or to representative of a non-profit or charity
organization solicit on behalf of that organization.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)
ARTICLE 3: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
10-301   Amounts
   
10-302   Fire insurance companies
   
10-303   Collection date
§ 10-301 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses: Class C liquor licenses, community antenna television
system, and fire insurance companies. The tax amounts shall be set by the
Village Board and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
Village Clerk during office hours. The occupation tax on the community antenna
television system is further described in § 10-702.
(Prior Code, § 10-301) (Ord. 125, passed 9-4-1979)
§ 10-302 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Neb. RS 35-106) (Prior Code, § 10-302)
§ 10-303 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or person to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk shall give receipt,
properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said tax, and the amount
paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall
be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of a revenue turned over to
him or her. All forms and receipt herein mentioned shall be issued in
duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
ARTICLE 4: MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-401   Adopted by reference
   
10-402   Location; exception
§ 10-401 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The mobile home regulations, adopted by Ord. 107, are hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein, in addition to any additions,
deletions, or amendments which have been made since the adoption of the
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
Editor’s Note:
   The zoning regulations are on file in the office of the Village Clerk
§ 10-402 LOCATION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All mobile homes and trailer homes, as defined in §
1-104(A)(35) of the zoning regulations of the village, shall be located only in
areas designated for mobile home parks or designated for individual mobile
homes or trailer homes pursuant to §
2-201(H) of the zoning regulations of the village.
   (B)   A mobile home or trailer home which is located on an individual lot
and not within a designated area on the effective date of this article shall be
excepted from this article for as long as said unit remains on such lot in
habitable condition; upon removal, destruction, or deterioration to an
unihabitable condition of such mobile home or trailer home, the exception to
this article shall cease and terminate and said individual lot shall thereafter
be used only in accordance with the zoning regulations of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) (Ord. 159, passed 1-5-1988)
ARTICLE 5: FRANCHISES
Section
   
10-501   Natural gas
   
10-502   Electricity
§ 10-501 NATURAL GAS.
   The governing body has granted to the Kinder Morgan, Inc. the right,
permission, and authority to construct, maintain, and operate a gas
transmission, and distribution system within the municipality. Actual details
of the agreement, and the present gas rates, charges, and fees, are available
at the Municipal Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord.282, passed 2-9-1998; Ord. 381, passed 10-7-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-528.02
§ 10-502 ELECTRICITY.
   The governing body has granted to the Nebraska Public Power District the
authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the
municipality for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the municipality,
and fixing the charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement and
the present electrical rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk’s office.
(Neb. RS 17-528.03) (Prior Code, § 10-502)
ARTICLE 6: RAILROADS
Section
   
10-601   Obstruction of streets
   
10-602   Obstructing view at crossings prohibited
§ 10-601 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   No railroad or railway company, railroad engineer, train conductor, or other
person shall cause or allow any locomotive engine, car, or train of cars to
stop in or remain upon any street or railroad crossing within the village for a
longer period than ten minutes at any one time; provided, however, that in case
collision should take place on any or either of the crossing aforesaid, a
reasonable time shall be allowed to remove an obstruction that may be caused
thereby. Should any street in the village be and remain obstructed, in whole or
in part, of any train or railroad or railway cars for and during the period of
ten minutes, it shall be the duty of each railroad or railway company upon
whose line or road such obstruction may occur, their agents and employees, and
persons in charge of such trains, on or before the expiration of such ten
minutes, when from any cause the entire train cannot be propelled or moved off
of any street obstructed as aforesaid, to cause such cars as are or may be on
or near street crossing to be uncoupled, and one division of the train as thus
made remove from off the aforesaid street and railroad or railway crossing in
such manner as to leave such crossing entirely unobstructed and such train when
again coupled shall be moved forthwith from off such crossing.
(Neb. RS 17-225) (Prior Code, § 10-601)
§ 10-602 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within 100 feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a public
road within the corporate limits of the municipality; provided, however, in no
instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of such
railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) (Ord. 148, passed 4-1-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 74-1323
ARTICLE 7: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
10-701   Operation
   
10-702   Occupation tax
   
10-703   Violations, penalty
§ 10-701 OPERATION.
   The Village Board is hereby authorized to grant an exclusive franchise for
the operation of a Community Antenna Television System pursuant to Neb. RS 18-
2201 through 18-2206 and as may be hereinafter amended. The Village Board may
further grant a franchisee the right, privilege, and franchise to erect,
construct, operate, and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over, and
under the street, alleys, and public ways now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions and additions thereto in the village for the placement of poles,
wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors
and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation of a Community Antenna
Television System for the interception, sale, transmission, and distribution of
television programs and other audio visual electrical signals and the right to
transmit the same to the inhabitants of the village on such terms and
conditions as may be set forth in the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 125, passed 9-4-1979)
§ 10-702 OCCUPATION TAX.
   There is hereby created an occupation tax to paid by the franchisee of the
Community Antenna Television Service, which shall be calculated as follows: 2%
times the base rate charged to subscribers times the number of subscribers for
each year of operation. The tax shall be paid annually commencing on May 1 of
the first year of operation by the franchisee and continuing on May 1 of each
succeeding year. Each payment of the tax shall be accompanied by a statement of
an officer of the franchisee certifying the number of subscribers served during
the preceding year.
(Prior Code, § 10-702) (Ord. 125, passed 9-4-1979)
§ 10-703 VIOLATIONS, PENALTY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
connect, tap into any existing service line, or hook up to any Community
Antenna Television Service line without having first contracted with the
operator of the Community Antenna Television System for the reception of any
television program or other audio visual electrical signals.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation failing comply with the provisions
of this article shall deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall for each offense be fined in any sum not to exceed $100 and may
be prosecuted for a separate continuing offense for each day that any
television program other audio visual electrical signal is received in
violation of this article.
(Prior Code, § 10-703) (Ord. 125, passed 9-4-1979)
ARTICLE 8: TOBACCO
Section
   
10-801   License for sale: application; contents; fee
§ 10-801 LICENSE FOR SALE: APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the Municipal
Clerk a written application on forms provided by the municipality, stating the
name of the person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation for
whom the license is desired, and the exact location of the place of business
and shall deposit with the application a license fee in the amount of $10. If
the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant’s
Social Security number.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 313, passed 11-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422, 28-1423
ARTICLE 9: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
10-901   Violation; penalty
§ 10-901 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 341, passed 10-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
   Article
      
1.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
2.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
11-101   Comprehensive plan: adopted
   
11-102   Zoning regulations: adopted
   
11-103   Zoning regulations: manufactured homes; standards
   
11-104   Zoning map adopted
   
11-105   Street Improvement Districts
§ 11-101 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: ADOPTED.
   (A)   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the Village of Kenesaw, Nebraska, as
prepared by the State Office of Planning and Programming in cooperation with
the State Department of Economic Development, has been adopted by Ord. 104,
April 4, 1972. Three copies of the adopted Plan shall be kept on file with the
Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
   (B)   The plan may be amended from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
Copies of the amendments shall be kept on file in the Municipal Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 422, passed 4-7-2009)
§ 11-102 ZONING REGULATIONS: ADOPTED.
   The village reviewed and hereby adopts the Zoning Regulations from Adams
County, and attached thereto and incorporated herein are Ord. 345, 357, 358,
and Res. 28, which shall remain in effect and which shall remain the official
documents referencing zoning issues as originally passed, and which shall
remain as attached and be included and read in conjunction with Ord. 398
adoption and passage.
(Prior Code, § 11-102) (Ord. 324, passed 8-1-2000; Ord. 326, passed 9-12-2000;
Ord. 327, passed 9-12-2000; Ord. 328, passed 11-3-2000; Ord. 398, passed 5-2-
2006; Ord. 414, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. 504-2011, passed 4-5-2011; Ord. 511-2012,
passed 10-9-2012; Ord. 515-2014, passed 12-9-2014)
§ 11-103 ZONING REGULATIONS: MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, being Neb. RS 71-4601 to 71-4620.01, the state’s Uniform Standards
for Modular Housing Units Act, being Neb. RS 71-1555 to 71-1568.01, or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean a factory-
built structure which is to be used as a place for human habitation, which is
not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it
to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and which bears a label
certifying that it was built in compliance with National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et seq. promulgated by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or a modular
housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a seal in accordance with
the state’s Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act.
(Prior Code, § 11-103) (Ord. 232, passed 8-1-1995; Ord. 319, passed 10-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 11-104 ZONING MAP ADOPTED.
   The Board of Trustees do hereby approve the zoning map, incorporated herein
by reference, with all changes reflected on said zoning map, and said Board
states that said map reflects the current zones and zoning within the corporate
limits and jurisdictional one mile are to the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-104) (Ord. 399, passed 5-2-2006; Ord. 413, passed 6-5-2007;
Ord. 415, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 416, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 417, passed 10-2-
2007; Ord. 423, passed 4-7-2009; Ord. 502-2010, passed 4-6-2010; Ord. 512-2013,
passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 513-2013, passed 6-11-2013; Ord. 528-2019, passed 9-10-
2019)
§ 11-105 STREET IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the
village, hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interests of the
village that the village construct and improve certain streets and other
improvements within the village, as hereinafter described; and it is in the
best interests of the village to create a street improvement district for the
construction of the hereinafter-described improvements.
      (2)   There is hereby created within the village a street improvement
district to be known and designated as Street Improvement District No. 2018-1
(the “District”), the outer boundaries of which coincide with and are the same
as the outer boundaries of the village. Within the District, the following
streets shall be improved by construction of improvements therein consisting of
grading and/or regrading, recurbing and reguttering or construction of curb and
gutter, as may be required, paving, repaving, earthwork, storm drainage
improvements, pedestrian walkways, and such other appurtenances as may be
incidental thereto (collectively, the “improvements”):
         (a)   Forty-Second Street from Smith Street to Wayne Street;
         (b)   Forty-Second Street from Smith Street to Brooks Street;
         (c)   Kenesaw Boulevard from Smith Street to Fifth Avenue;
         (d)   Smith Avenue from Ash Street to Kenesaw Boulevard; and
         (e)   Elm Street from Denison Street to Perkins Street.
      (3)   All of said improvements shall be constructed to the established
grades as fixed by ordinances of the village, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications to be prepared by the special
engineers of the village and approved by the Board.
      (4)   The Board hereby finds and determines that the improvements in the
District consist of public improvements of general benefit to the village as a
whole, that no property within the District will be specially benefitted by the
improvements, that none of the improvements are to be funded or reimbursed by a
levy of special assessments and that the improvements shall be funded at public
cost as provided in Neb. RS 17-509 and 17-520, as amended.
      (5)   Following adoption of this division (A), notice of the creation of
the District shall be published in the Hastings Tribune, a legal newspaper of
general circulation within the village, one time each week for two consecutive
weeks.
      (6)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of the
front footage of the property directly abutting the streets to be improved
within the District file written objections to the creation of the District
with the Village Clerk within 20 days after the first publication of the notice
set forth in division (A)(5) above, the improvements shall not be made, and
this division (A) shall be repealed.
   (B)   (1)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the
village hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interests of the
village that the village construct and improve certain streets and other
improvements within the village, as hereinafter described; and it is in the
best interests of the village to create a street improvement district for the
construction of the hereinafter-described improvements.
      (2)   (a)   There is hereby created within the village a street
improvement district to be known and designated as Street Improvement District
No. 2018-2 (the “District”), the outer boundaries of which shall contain the
following property: Lots 60 through 65,78 through 83, and 108 through 118 of
the Original Town and also Lots 1 and 2 of the Spare Lot Subdivision.
         (b)   Within the District, certain improvements will be made to
pedestrian walkways and such other appurtenances as may be incidental thereto
(collectively, the “improvements”).
      (3)   All of said improvements shall be constructed to the established
grades as fixed by ordinances of the village, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications to be prepared by the engineers of the
village and approved by the Board. The cost of such improvements shall be
assessed against certain properties within the District specifically benefitted
thereby in proportion to the benefits.
      (4)   Notice of the creation of the District shall be published in the
Hastings Tribune, a legal newspaper of general circulation within the village,
one time each week for two consecutive weeks.
      (5)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of the
front footage of the property directly abutting the improvements within the
District file written objections to the creation of the District with the
Village Clerk within 20 days after the first publication of the notice set
forth in division (B)(4) above, the improvements shall not be made, and this
division (B) shall be repealed.
   (C)   (1)   There has been duly presented and filed with the Village Clerk,
a petition (the “petition”) requesting the creation of Street Improvement
District No. 2019-1 of the village (the “District”).
      (2)   The improvements in said District shall consist of the compete
removal of existing street and replacement with a 40-foot wide (back to back of
curb) by six inches thick (width and thickness to match existing street at the
south end of the improvement area) Portland cement concrete paving with
integral curb and gutter, including all grading and shaping as needed. The
proposed roadway will be 40 feet wide. The proposed area to be improved is
Wayne Street between the intersection of Forty-Second Street and a point
approximately 200 feet north of Larae Street.
      (3)   The lots included in the District which are subject to special
assessment to pay the costs of such improvements include the following lots
located in the village: the lots in the improvement district are Hersh
Subdivision, Block 1, Lots 1 through 10, and Hersh Subdivision, Block 2, Lots 1
through 8.
      (4)   Said street shall be improved and said improvements shall be made
in accordance with the plans, specifications, and estimates prepared by the
special engineers for the village and to be approved by the Chairperson and
Board pursuant to Neb. RS 17-509, the cost of such improvements shall be by a
levy of special assessments against the property especially benefitted thereby.
The cost of improvements is estimated to be $275,000.
      (5)   Notice of the creation of said District shall be published as
provided by law in the Hastings Tribune, a legal newspaper of general
circulation within the village.
(Ord. 519-2018, passed 5-8-2018; Ord. 520-2018, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 526-
2019, passed 7-9-2019)
ARTICLE 2: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
11-201   Statutory authorization
   
11-202   Findings of fact
   
11-203   Statement of purpose
   
11-204   Adherence to regulations
   
11-205   Lands to which article applies
   
11-206   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
11-207   Compliance
   
11-208   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
11-209   Interpretation
   
11-210   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
11-211   Definitions
   
11-212   Establishment of zoning districts
Floodplain Management Administration
   
11-225   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
11-226   Permits required
   
11-227   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
11-228   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
11-229   Flood data required
   
11-230   Variances and appeals
   
11-231   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
11-245   General provisions
   
11-246   Elevation and flood-proofing requirements
   
11-247   Design and construction standards
   
11-248   Nonconforming use
   
11-249   Amendments
   
11-250   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11-201 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the state. The
Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 through 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the Board of Trustees ordains as follows.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-202 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-203 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
11-202 by applying the provisions of this article to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-204 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this article are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title 44 and the state’s
Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the
Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-205 LANDS TO WHICH ARTICLE APPLIES.
   (A)   This article shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
village identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels 31001C0025C,
31001C0110C, and 31001C0125C dated July 5, 2018 as Zone A and within the Zoning
District established in §
11-212.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this article, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the Board of Trustees or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
11-228 through
11-231 and §§
11-245 through
11-247.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-206 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the
Village Board of Trustees will resolve the dispute.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present his or her case to the Village Board of Trustees and to
submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-207 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-208 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This article does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where this article imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this article shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-209 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-210 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This article does not imply that areas outside floodway
and flood fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall not
create liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof
for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-211 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which flood waters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading, and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; or obstructions.
   DRAINWAY. See definition for WATERCOURSE.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
flood insurance study has delineated the special flood hazard area boundaries
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
article.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non- elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION (FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PURPOSES). Structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment, or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
OBSTRUCTIONS if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 through 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning districts. The original zoning district
designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated July 5, 2018, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated July 5, 2018, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this article.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or any alteration of a
“historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
article that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
article where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this article is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-212 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this article are
hereby established as the floodplain overlay district, as identified in the
flood insurance study dated July 5, 2018 and on accompanying FIRM panels as
established in § 11-205. The floodplain overlay district shall correspond to
Flood Zone A. Within this district, all uses not meeting the standards of this
article and those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 11-225 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community’s local Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is
authorized and directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of
this article. If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the
community CEO shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-226 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-227 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this article
have been satisfied;
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (E)   Coordinate with the state’s Department of Natural Resources to obtain
base flood elevation information when applicable and required;
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been flood-proofed;
   (J)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
   (K)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this article; and
   (L)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this article.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-228 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
flood waters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When flood-proofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a flood-
proofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be
completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
   (F)   Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, parts 65.5 and 65.6 allow
for changes to the special flood hazard area through a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) or a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), provided the
community determines that the land and any existing or proposed structures that
would be removed from the floodplain are “reasonably safe from flooding”. The
community acknowledgment form asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-
F applications and must be signed by the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall not sign a community acknowledgment form unless
all criteria set forth in the following divisions are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F;
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be “reasonably safe from flooding”, according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01; and
      (3)   All requirements listed in the Simplified Approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the Engineered Approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-229 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood, however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this article. If flood insurance
study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the flood insurance
study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-230 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Variance and appeals procedures.
      (1)   The Village Board of Trustee’s shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this article.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustee shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this article.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village or any taxpayer
may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS 23-168.02
(for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
      (4)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Village Board of
Trustees shall consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this article, and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location,
where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject
to flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and the floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing government services during and after
flood conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and
repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B)(5) through (B)(8) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure on the National Register of Historic Places and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (6)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (7)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this article.
      (8)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-231 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this article shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this article, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 11-245 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments. When proposing to permit any of the following
encroachments, the standards in division (B)(2) below shall apply:
      (1)   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that will
cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then the applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
conditional letter of map revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, part
65.12) prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-246 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, flood-proofed so that below one foot above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. A flood-proofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§ 11-225 to
11-231.
   (C)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
may have the lowest floor below one foot” above base flood elevation provided
that the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning;
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 900 square feet;
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential;
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement;
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of flood waters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated or flood-proofed to one foot above base flood
elevation;
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters; and
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision;
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood; and
         (e)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(D) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
below.
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
11-247(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (F)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this article do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures; however, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this article.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation, including an elevation
certificate, flood-proofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018; Ord. OR539-2021, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 11-247 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide flood waters around
and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into flood waters.
      (3)    On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this article.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-248 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this article, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this article, may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 60 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-249 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
article may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations; provided,
however, that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in Hastings, Nebraska. At least
five days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public
hearing unless a longer time period is required by law.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the state’s Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
§ 11-250 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity that
violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this article shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non- compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 521-2018, passed 7-25-2018)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
Section
   
11-301   Violation; penalty
§ 11-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor, or as the agent, attorney, or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land, who shall plat or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or adjoining
and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall sell,
transfer, deed or convey, contract, or agree to sell, transfer, or offer for
sale any lot or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of three or
more parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto,
without having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat or map
thereof by the governing body, and any person who shall violate, or who shall
fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions hereinbefore, as
now existing or as hereafter amended shall, upon conviction, be fined in any
sum not exceeding $500.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 342, passed 10-3-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   STREET CONSTRUCTION
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
531-2019 11-12-2019  Annexation of KCDC Subdivision
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET CONSTRUCTION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
516-2015 1-13-2015   Creation and dedication of an alley
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section                   Code Section
3-132                             10-120
3-501 to 3-514                    1-820
10-401 through 10-411             1-819
10-606 through 10-612             1-819
11-101                            1-302
11-103 through 11-118             1-301
12-1001                           1-819
13-310                            8-303
13-312                            8-303
13-314                            8-303
13-403                            8-211
13-501 to 13-513                  1-807,
                                  1-824
13-504                            1-802
13-505                            1-802
13-506                            1-803,
                                  1-824
13-507                            1-803
13-508                            1-804
13-509.01                         1-805
13-509.02                         1-805
13-511                            1-824
13-518 through 13-522             1-804,
                                  1-824
13-606                            1-812
13-609                            1-823
13-801 to 13-827                  1-516,
                                  1-820
13-2501 to 13-2550                1-516,
                                  1-820
16-691.01                         1-818
16-714 through 16-716             1-822
17-123                            6-310
17-147                            1-207
17-202                            1-701,
                                  1-711
17-202 through 17-204             1-102
17-202 through 17-210             1-101
17-203                            1-711
                                  1-511,
17-204                            1-514,
                                  1-515
17-205                            1-511
                                  1-103,
                                  1-1001,
                                  2-301,
                                  3-801,
                                  5-314,
17-207                            5-701,
                                  6-203,
                                  6-401,
                                  7-301,
                                  8-601,
                                  9-301,
                                  10-901
17-208                            1-201,
                                  2-203
17-209.02                         1-202,
                                  1-901
17-213                            1-206
17-214                            1-209
17-225                            10-601
17-405                            1-208
17-502                            1-401
17-503                            8-202
17-503.01                         8-202
17-503.02                         8-203
                                  1-207,
                                  1-601,
                                  1-1001,
                                  2-301,
                                  3-113,
                                  3-801,
17-505                            4-301,
                                  5-701,
                                  6-401,
                                  7-301,
                                  8-601,
                                  9-301,
                                  10-901
17-509                            11-105
17-511                            8-410
17-520                            11-105
17-522                            8-303,
                                  8-305
17-523                            8-305
17-524                            8-303,
                                  8-410
17-525                            10-201
17-526                            6-101
17-528.02                         10-501
17-528.03                         10-502
17-529.01                         1-819
17-529.08                         1-819
17-531                            3-101
17-534                            1-819,
                                  3-101
                                  3-103,
                                  3-105,
                                  3-107,
17-537                            3-112,
                                  3-113,
                                  3-116,
                                  3-118
17-538                            3-111
17-539                            3-115
17-540                            1-818,
                                  3-108
17-541                            1-201,
                                  1-209
17-543                            1-209
17-548                            6-113
17-549                            7-212
17-550                            7-205 –
                                  7-208
17-555                            4-102
17-556                            6-202,
                                  7-212
17-557                            5-407,
                                  8-301
17-557.01                         8-204,
                                  8-209
17-558                            8-403,
                                  8-411
17-559                            8-403,
                                  8-411
17-563                            6-208
17-567                            8-201
17-568                            1-208
17-568.01                         1-208,
                                  1-811
17-568.02                         1-811
17-602                            1-708
17-604                            1-301
17-605                            1-203
17-606                            1-204
17-607                            1-817
17-608                            1-818
17-609                            1-818
17-610                            1-205
17-612                            1-901
                                  1-604,
17-613                            1-607 –
                                  1-609,
                                  1-811
                                  1-605,
17-614                            1-606,
                                  1-610
17-616                            1-508,
                                  1-606
17-701                            1-801
17-702                            1-809
17-706                            1-807
17-708                            1-810
17-710                            1-815
17-711                            1-814
17-714                            1-813
17-715                            1-813
17-718                            3-301
17-720                            1-822
17-803                            1-818
17-905                            1-819
17-908                            1-819
17-911                            1-819
17-919                            1-208
17-925.01                         3-201
17-939                            1-819
17-948                            3-415
17-948 through 17-952             3-401
17-949                            3-416 –
                                  3-418
17-951                            3-415
17-952                            3-415
17-953                            3-301
17-958                            1-819
17-968                            1-819
18-132                            7-201
18-412.01                         1-811
18-1001 through 18-1006           8-202
                                  1-103,
                                  1-1001,
                                  2-301,
                                  3-801,
                                  4-101,
                                  4-102,
18-1720                           5-701,
                                  6-401,
                                  7-301,
                                  8-601,
                                  9-206,
                                  9-301,
                                  10-901
                                  1-1001,
                                  2-301,
                                  3-801,
                                  4-301,
                                  5-701,
18-1722                           6-401,
                                  7-301,
                                  8-601,
                                  9-206,
                                  9-301 
                                  10-901
18-1722.01                        9-206
18-1737                           5-409
18-1755                           8-210
18-1756                           1-811
18-1801 through 18-1805           1-819
18-2101 to 18-2154                1-820
18-2101 et seq.                   2-204
18-2107                           2-205
18-2201 through 18-2206           10-701
18-2801 to 18-2808                1-801
18-2804                           1-812
19-710                            4-301
19-902                            7-201,
                                  11-103
19-908                            2-201
19-912                            11-230
19-912.01                         2-202
19-922                            7-201
19-924 through 19-929             2-201
19-925                            2-205
19-1101                           1-204
19-1102                           1-203
19-1103                           1-204
19-1104                           1-203
19-1301 through 19-1304           1-816
19-1305                           3-101
19-1309                           1-808
19-1309 through 19-1312           1-808
19-2701                           3-103,
                                  3-203
19-2902                           1-812
19-2903                           1-812
19-2904                           1-812
19-2905                           1-812
19-3701                           1-609
23-168.02                         11-230
23-3513                           1-819
28-515.02                         3-704
28-609                            3-308
28-806                            6-206
                                  7-102,
28-908                            7-104,
                                  7-106
28-1004                           6-304
28-1005                           6-305,
                                  6-306
28-1008                           6-110,
                                  6-301
28-1009                           6-303
28-1009.01                        6-210
28-1012                           6-302
28-1229                           7-212
28-1233                           7-212
28-1233(3)                        7-212
28-1422                           10-801
28-1423                           10-801
29-422 through 29-429             6-302
29-4001 to 29-4014                6-212
29-4003                           6-212
29-4013                           6-212
29-4015 to 29-1017                6-212
31-1001 through 31-1023           11-201
32-101 to 32-1551                 1-702,
                                  1-820
32-102                            1-708
32-401                            1-701
32-404                            1-701,
                                  1-702
32-405                            1-704
32-532                            1-701,
                                  1-711
32-554                            1-711
32-559                            1-704
32-560                            1-104
32-560 through 32-572             1-104
32-561                            1-104
32-607                            1-707
32-608                            1-706,
                                  1-707
32-615                            1-707
32-616                            1-707
32-617                            1-707
32-618                            1-707
32-621                            1-707
32-625(2)                         1-707
32-628                            1-707,
                                  1-710
32-628 through 32-631             1-820
32-629                            1-707,
                                  1-710
32-630                            1-707,
                                  1-710
32-802                            1-820
32-952 through 32-959             1-704
32-1202                           1-709
32-1301 through 32-1309           1-710
32-1303                           1-710
32-1304                           1-710
32-1305                           1-710
32-1306                           1-710
32-1308                           1-104,
                                  1-710
32-1309                           1-710
33-139.01                         3-303
34-404                            1-703
35-102                            1-207
35-106                            10-302
35-108                            1-207,
                                  3-303
39-311                            5-301
39-625                            5-307
39-683                            5-312
39-836                            1-819
46-1212                           8-212
46-1601 through 46-1670           11-211
48-1503                           1-811
49-1408                           1-902
49-1425                           1-902
49-1499.04                        1-902
49-14,102                         1-902
49-14,103.01                      1-902
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06 1-202
49-14,103.02                      1-902
49-14,103.03                      1-902
49-14,103.05                      1-902
49-14,103.06                      1-902
51-201                            1-820
51-501                            1-820
53-101 to 53-1,122                10-101
53-103                            10-101
53-116.01                         10-120
53-124                            10-107.
                                  10-119
53-124(6)(b)                      10-107
53-124.12                         10-119
53-131                            10-107
53-132                            10-107
53-133                            10-107
53-134                            10-107
53-134.03                         10-107
53-134.04                         10-107
53-135                            10-106
53-135.01                         10-106,
                                  10-107
53-148                            10-105
53-168.06                         10-102,
                                  10-118
53-177                            10-103
53-178                            10-104
53-180                            10-110
53-183                            10-111
53-184                            10-112
53-186                            6-211
53-186(1)                         10-117
53-186(2)                         10-117
53-186.01                         10-117
53-1,101                          10-108
53-1,102                          10-109
54-601                            6-112
54-602                            6-112
54-603                            6-101,
                                  6-102
54-604                            6-106,
                                  6-108
54-617                            6-117
54-618                            6-118
54-619                            6-119
54-620                            6-120
54-624                            6-121
Chapter 60                        5-607
Chapter 60, Article 1             5-504
Chapter 60, Article 3             5-504 
Chapter 60, Article 4             5-504
Chapter 60, Article 5             5-504
Chapter 60, Article 6             5-101
60-136                            4-102
60-606 through 60-676             5-101
60-624                            5-601
60-658.01                         5-316
60-678                            5-503
                                  5-201,
                                  5-306,
60-680                            5-308,
                                  5-401 –
                                  5-403,
                                  5-408
60-682.01                         5-316
60-696                            5-318
60-697                            5-318
60-699                            5-606
60-6,131                          8-408
60-6,134.01                       5-316,
                                  5-317
60,6,136                          5-307
60-6,165                          5-408
60-6,166                          5-306,
                                  7-105
60-6,178                          5-310
60-6,179                          5-308
60-6,183                          7-107
60-6,184                          7-106
60-6,185                          5-302
60-6,186                          5-302
60-6,190                          5-302,
                                  5-303
60-6,192                          5-304
60-6,211.08                       6-211
60-6,213                          5-305
60-6,215                          5-305
60-6,268                          5-315
60-6,316                          5-309
60-6,347                          5-501,
                                  5-504
60-6,348                          5-502
60-6,352                          5-501
60-6,355                          5-601
Chapter 60, Article 17            5-504
60-6,358                          5-603
60-6,359                          5-604
60-6,360                          5-605
60-6,361                          5-606
60-6,362                          5-607
60-4,182                          5-305
70-624.04                         1-902
70-1601                           3-702
70-1601 through 70-1615           3-704
70-1603                           3-701
70-1604                           3-701
71-1555 to 71-1568.01             11-103
71-1557                           11-103
71-1637                           1-820
71-1908 to 71-1923                6-212
71-4406                           6-114
71-4408                           6-113
71-4412                           6-101
71-4601 to 71-4620.01             11-103
71-5301                           9-207
74-1323                           10-602
77-1601                           1-821
77-1601.02                        1-821
77-1606                           1-820,
                                  1-821
77-1702                           1-823
77-1725                           9-206
77-2201                           1-204
77-2202                           1-204
77-2209                           1-204
77-2210                           1-204
77-2304                           1-822
77-2337                           1-816
77-2339                           1-816
77-2341                           1-818
77-2362                           1-817
77-2365.01                        1-817
77-2366                           1-817,
                                  1-822
77-2386 to 77-23,108              1-817,
                                  1-822
                                  1-808,
77-3442                           1-809,
                                  1-820
77-3443                           1-820
77-3444                           1-704,
                                  1-820
81-145 through 81-162             1-811
81-502                            7-201
81-506                            1-207,
                                  3-310
81-512                            1-207
81-5,148                          9-104
81-1501 to 81-1532                3-501
81-2005                           5-311
                                  1-208,
81-3401 through 81-3455           8-212,
                                  9-104
81-3423                           8-212
81-3445                           8-212
81-3449                           8-212
81-3449 through 81-3453           8-212
81-3453                           8-212
84-304                            1-812
84-712                            1-203
84-1201 through 84-1220           1-203
84-1407 to 84-1414                1-505
84-1408                           1-503
84-1408 through 84-1414           1-516
84-1409                           1-503
84-1410                           1-504,
                                  1-505
                                  1-503,
84-1411                           1-506 ,
                                  1-509
84-1412                           1-507,
                                  1-510
                                  1-503,
84-1413                           1-507,
                                  1-508
84-1409(1)                        1-502
84-1409(2)                        1-501
84-1411(3)                        1-516
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-101              1-101
1-102              1-102
1-103              1-103
1-104              1-104
1-201              1-201
1-202              1-202
1-203              1-203
1-204              1-204
1-207              1-205
1-208              1-206
1-209              1-207
1-210              1-208
1-211              1-209
1-212              1-210
1-301              1-301
1-302              1-302
1-401              1-401
1-501              1-501
1-502              1-502
1-503              1-503
1-504              1-504
1-504.01           1-505
1-505              1-506
1-506              1-507
1-507              1-508
1-508              1-509
1-509              1-510
1-510              1-511
1-511              1-512
1-512              1-513
1-513              1-514
1-515              1-516
1-601              1-601
1-602              1-602
1-603              1-603
1-604              1-604
1-605              1-605
1-606              1-606
1-607              1-607
1-608              1-608
1-609              1-609
1-610              1-610
1-701              1-701
1-701.01           1-702
1-702              1-703
1-703              1-704
1-704              1-705
1-705              1-706
1-706              1-707
1-709              1-708
1-711              1-709
1-713              1-710
1-714              1-711
1-801              1-801
1-802              1-802
1-803              1-803
1-804              1-804
1-804.01           1-805
1-805              1-806
1-806              1-807
1-807              1-808
1-812              1-809
1-813              1-810
1-814              1-811
1-815              1-812
1-816              1-813
1-817              1-814
1-818              1-815
1-819              1-816
1-820              1-817
1-821              1-818
1-822              1-819
1-823              1-820
1-824              1-821
1-825              1-822
1-826              1-823
1-827              1-824
1-901              1-901
1-902              1-902
1-904              1-904
1-1001             1-1001
2-101              2-101
2-201              2-201
2-202              2-202
2-203              2-203
2-205              2-204
2-206              2-204
2-207              2-204
2-208              2-204
3-101              3-101
3-102              3-102
3-103              3-103
3-104              3-104
3-105              3-105
3-106              3-106
3-107              3-107
3-108              3-108
3-109              3-109
3-110              3-110
3-111              3-111
3-112              3-112
3-113              3-113
3-114              3-114
3-115              3-115
3-116              3-116
3-117              3-117
3-118              3-118
3-119              3-119
3-120              3-120
3-121              3-121
3-122              3-122
3-123              3-123
3-123.01           3-124
3-123.02           3-125
3-123.03           3-126
3-123.04           3-127
3-123.05           3-128
3-201              3-201
3-202              3-202
3-203              3-203
3-204              3-204
3-205              3-205
3-206              3-206
3-207              3-207
3-208              3-208
3-209              3-209
3-210              3-210
3-211              3-211
3-212              3-212
3-213              3-213
3-214              3-214
3-215              3-215
3-216              3-216
3-301              3-301
3-302              3-302
3-303              3-303
3-304              3-304
3-305              3-305
3-306              3-306
3-307              3-307
3-308              3-308
3-309              3-309
3-310              3-310
3-311              3-311
3-401              3-401
3-402              3-402
3-403              3-415
3-404              3-416
3-405              3-417
3-406              3-418
3-407              3-419
3-501              3-501
3-502              3-502
3-601              3-601
3-603              3-602
3-604              3-603
3-605              3-604
3-606              3-605
3-607              3-606
3-608              3-607
3-609              3-608
3-610              3-609
3-611              3-610
3-612              3-611
3-701              3-701
3-702              3-702
3-703              3-703
3-704              3-704
3-801              3-801
5-101              5-101
5-201              5-201
5-301              5-301
5-302              5-302
5-303              5-303
5-304              5-304
5-305              5-305
5-306              5-306
5-307              5-307
5-308              5-308
5-309              5-309
5-310              5-310
5-311              5-311
5-312              5-311
5-313              5-313
5-314              5-314
5-315              5-315
5-316              5-316
5-317              5-317
5-318              5-318
5-401              5-401 
5-402              5-402
5-403              5-403
5-404              5-404
5-405              5-405
5-406              5-406
5-407              5-407
5-416              5-408
5-425              5-409
5-427              5-410
5-428              5-411
5-408              5-435
5-409              5-436
5-410              5-437
5-411              5-438
5-412              5-439
5-413              5-440
5-414              5-441
5-415              5-442
5-501              5-501
5-502              5-502
5-503              5-503
5-504              5-504
5-601              5-601
5-602              5-602
5-604              5-603
5-605              5-604
5-606              5-605
5-607              5-606
5-608              5-607
5-609              5-608
5-701              5-701
6-101              6-101
6-101.01           6-102
6-102              6-103
6-103              6-104
6-104              6-105
6-105              6-106
6-106              6-107
6-107              6-108
6-108              6-109
6-109              6-110
6-110              6-111
6-111              6-112
6-112              6-113
6-113              6-114
6-114              6-115
6-116              6-116
6-117              6-117
6-118              6-118
6-119              6-119
6-120              6-120
6-121              6-121
6-201              6-201
6-202              6-202
6-203              6-203
6-205              6-205
6-206              6-206
6-207              6-207
6-208              6-208
6-209              6-209
6-221              6-210
6-222              6-211
6-223              6-212
6-301              6-301
6-302              6-302
6-303              6-303
6-304              6-304
6-305              6-305
6-306              6-306
6-307              6-307
6-308              6-308
6-309              6-309
6-401              6-401
7-101              7-101
7-102              7-102
7-103              7-103
7-104              7-104
7-105              7-105
7-106              7-106
7-107              7-107
7-108              7-108
7-109              7-109
7-201              7-201
7-202              7-202
7-203              7-203
7-204              7-204
7-205              7-205
7-206              7-206
7-207              7-207
7-208              7-208
7-209              7-209
7-210              7-210
7-211              7-211
7-212              7-214
7-301              7-301
8-101              8-101
8-201              8-201
8-202              8-202
8-202.01           8-203
8-203              8-204
8-204              8-205
8-204.01           8-206
8-205              8-207
8-206              8-208
8-207              8-209
8-208              8-210
8-209              8-211
8-210              8-212
8-301              8-301
8-302              8-302
8-304              8-303
8-305              8-304
8-306              8-305
8-307              8-306
8-401              8-401
8-402              8-402
8-403              8-403
8-404              8-404
8-405              8-405
8-406              8-406
8-407              8-407
8-408              8-408
8-409              8-409
8-410              8-410
8-411              8-411
8-501              8-501
8-502              8-502
8-601              8-601
9-101              9-101
9-102              9-102
9-103              9-103
9-104              9-104
9-201              9-201
9-202              9-202
9-203              9-203
9-204              9-204
9-205              9-205 
9-206              9-206
9-207              9-207
9-301              9-301
10-101             10-101
10-102             10-102
10-103             10-103
10-104             10-104
10-105             10-105
10-108             10-106
10-109             10-107
10-110             10-108
10-111             10-109
10-112             10-110
10-113             10-111
10-115             10-112
10-116             10-113
10-117             10-114
10-118             10-115
10-119             10-116
10-120             10-117
10-121             10-118
10-124             10-119
10-125             10-120
10-201             10-201
10-202             10-202
10-203             10-203
10-301             10-301
10-302             10-302
10-303             10-303
10-401             10-401
10-402             10-402
10-501             10-501
10-502             10-502
10-601             10-601
10-602             10-602
10-701             10-701
10-702             10-702
10-703             10-703
10-801             10-801
10-901             10-901
11-101             11-101
11-102             11-102
11-103             11-103
11-104             11-104
11-201             11-201
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
115        2-1-1977    5-406
                       10-301,
125        9-4-1979    10-701 –
                       10-703
0-109-83   10-10-1983  10-107
1-902-83   10-10-1983  1-902
5-304-83   10-10-1983  5-304
10-108-83  10-10-1983  10-106
10-117-83  10-10-1983  10-114
139        10-2-1984   1-104
                       1-704,
140        10-2-1984   1-707,
                       1-710,
                       1-711
141        10-2-1984   1-902
136        4-1-1986    3-419
147        4-1-1986    1-511
148        4-1-1986    10-602
149        4-1-1986    1-510
151        7-7-1987    1-607
152        7-7-1987    1-902
150        9-1-1987    5-435 –
                       5-442
155        11-3-1987   1-503
                       5-601,
156        11-3-1987   5-603 –
                       5-608
159        1-5-1988    10-402
161        5-3-1988    6-109
162        5-3-1988    6-116
160        6-7-1988    9-207
164        7-5-1988    6-115
166        11-1-1988   5-408
167        11-1-1988   9-207
169        11-1-1988   10-119
170        3-7-1989    7-210
172        8-1-1989    6-113
174        11-7-1989   3-113
176        12-5-1989   6-117 –
                       6-121
175        1-2-1990    5-314
183        10-2-1990   9-101 –
                       9-103
188        5-7-1991    1-104
189        5-7-1991    1-202
190        5-7-1991    5-315
191        5-7-1991    6-301 –
                       6-303
192        5-7-1991    6-304 –
                       6-306
193        5-7-1991    9-206
170        7-2-1991    7-211
187        7-2-1991    7-209,
                       7-214
195        11-5-1991   10-114
196        4-7-1992    1-904
198        5-5-1992    10-112
197        5-12-1992   5-409
202        10-6-1992   3-121,
                       3-122
204        5-4-1993    1-203
205        5-4-1993    1-502
206        5-4-1993    1-504
207        7-9-1993    3-602 –
                       3-611
216        9-6-1994    1-802
217        9-6-1994    1-804
218        9-6-1994    1-807
219        9-6-1994    5-101
220        9-6-1994    5-309
222        9-6-1994    8-202
224        7-11-1995   1-504
225        7-11-1995   1-606
226        7-11-1995   1-805
227        7-11-1995   2-201
229        7-11-1995   8-210
230        7-11-1995   8-211
231        7-11-1995   10-119
232        8-1-1995    11-103
235        7-2-1996    1-101
236        7-2-1996    1-102
237        7-2-1996    1-514
238        7-2-1996    1-515
239        7-2-1996    1-701
240        7-2-1996    1-711
241        7-2-1996    1-801
242        7-2-1996    1-804
243        7-2-1996    1-807
244        7-2-1996    2-201
245        7-2-1996    8-202
246        7-2-1996    10-118
248        9-3-1996    3-106
249        9-3-1996    3-209
250        4-1-1997    5-406
252        8-5-1997    1-606
254        9-2-1997    1-201
256        9-2-1997    1-601
257        9-2-1997    1-602
258        9-2-1997    1-606
260        10-7-1997   1-609
261        10-7-1997   1-610
262        10-7-1997   1-704
263        10-7-1997   1-802
264        10-7-1997   1-804
265        10-7-1997   1-820
266        11-4-1997   2-203
267        11-4-1997   3-701
277        12-2-1997   5-409
278        12-2-1997   10-119
279        12-2-1997   1-607
280        12-2-1997   2-204
282        2-9-1998    10-501
284        4-7-1998    6-209
285        7-7-1998    2-204
286        8-4-1998    8-206
287        8-4-1998    3-115
290        10-6-1998   1-707
291        10-6-1998   1-710
293        10-6-1998   1-802
294        10-6-1998   1-803
295        11-10-1998  1-804
296        11-10-1998  1-809
297        11-10-1998  1-820
298        11-10-1998  1-821
299        11-10-1998  1-808
301        11-10-1998  1-817
302        11-10-1998  1-822
303        11-10-1998  1-811
304        11-10-1998  1-823
305        11-10-1998  3-201
306        11-10-1998  5-316
307        11-10-1998  5-317
308        11-10-1998  6-102
309        11-10-1998  6-210
310        11-10-1998  8-202
311        11-10-1998  8-212
312        11-10-1998  9-104
313        11-10-1998  10-801
314        11-10-1998  1-104
315        5-4-1999    1-203
316        5-4-1999    6-307
319        10-5-1999   11-103
320        11-5-1999   3-702
322        5-2-2000    5-406
                       3-202,
                       3-203,
346        6-5-2000    3-208,
                       3-212 –
                       3-216
323        6-6-2000    6-116
324        8-1-2000    11-102
326        9-12-2000   11-102
327        9-12-2000   11-102
329        10-3-2000   10-119
330        10-3-2000   10-117
331        10-3-2000   10-107
333        10-3-2000   1-701
334        10-3-2000   1-821
335        10-3-2000   1-820
336        10-3-2000   1-824
337        10-3-2000   6-209
338        10-3-2000   6-211
339        10-3-2000   8-212
340        10-3-2000   1-103
                       1-1001,
                       2-301,
                       3-801,
                       5-701,
341        10-3-2000   6-310,
                       6-401,
                       7-301,
                       8-601,
                       9-301,
                       10-901
342        10-3-2000   11-201
328        11-3-2000   11-102
343        12-5-2000   3-703
344        5-1-2001    3-123 –
                       3-128
347        8-7-2001    5-315
348        8-7-2001    1-802
351        8-7-2001    1-516
359        2-5-2002    3-703
80         7-9-2002    10-119
363        7-9-2002    1-204
364        7-9-2002    1-902
365        7-9-2002    1-824
366        7-9-2002    5-318
375        7-9-2002    5-409
376        7-9-2002    8-403
377        7-9-2002    8-411
378        7-9-2002    10-118
379        7-9-2002    10-107
381        10-7-2003   10-501
382        10-7-2003   1-710
383        10-7-2003   1-707
384        10-7-2003   1-802
385        10-7-2003   1-803
386        10-7-2003   1-824
387        10-7-2003   1-820
389        11-4-2003   1-817
390        11-4-2003   1-812
391        11-4-2003   3-704
392        11-4-2003   5-315
393        1-6-2004    3-121,
                       3-122
394        4-6-2004    6-308,
                       6-309
396        11-2-2004   5-410,
                       5-411
398        5-2-2006    11-102
399        5-2-2006    11-104
400        11-7-2006   6-212
401        1-9-2007    3-123
402        2-6-2007    3-303
403        2-6-2007    1-704
404        2-6-2007    1-817
405        2-6-2007    8-202,
                       8-203
406        2-6-2007    1-504,
                       1-505
407        2-6-2007    1-701,
                       1-702
408        2-6-2007    8-212
409        2-6-2007    6-208
410        2-6-2007    9-104
411        2-6-2007    10-120
412        2-6-2007    10-106,
                       10-107
413        6-5-2007    11-104
414        8-7-2007    11-102
415        9-11-2007   11-104
416        10-2-2007   11-104
417        10-2-2007   11-104
418        11-6-2007   5-601
419        2-5-2008    2-101
422        4-7-2009    11-101
423        4-7-2009    11-104
424        8-4-2009    5-601,
                       5-602
425        9-8-2009    9-105
426        9-8-2009    3-217
497        10-6-2009   1-903
501-2010   3-7-2010    7-212,
                       7-213
502-2010   4-6-2010    11-104
503-2011   4-5-2011    9-208
504-2011   4-5-2011    11-102
505-2011   10-11-2011  6-208
506-2011   10-11-2011  1-511
508-2011   10-11-2011  3-501
509-2011   10-11-2011  1-209
511-2012   10-9-2012   11-102
512-2013   3-12-2013   11-104
513-2013   6-11-2013   11-104
515-2014   12-9-2014   11-102
516-2015   1-13-2015   TSO Table II
517-2016   7-14-2016   3-115
518-2016   2-14-2017   6-310
519-2018   5-8-2018    11-105
520-2018   6-12-2018   11-105
                       11-201 –
                       11-212,
521-2018   7-25-2018   11-225 –
                       11-231,
                       11-245 –
                       11-250
524-2019   2-12-2019   3-110
525-2019   2-12-2019   3-703
526-2019   7-9-2019    11-105
528-2019   9-10-2019   11-104
531-2019   11-12-2019  TSO Table I
532-2019   11-12-2019  1-511
533-2020   1-14-2020   2-205
OR537-2021 4-13-2021   6-310
OR538-2021 4-13-2021   3-303
OR539-2021 7-13-2021   11-246
540-2022   1-18-2022   6-116
541-2022   1-18-2022   6-109
544-2022   4-12-2022   Adopting Ordinance
547-2022   11-8-2022   6-118
                       4-101,
                       4-102,
548-2022   11-8-2022   4-201,
                       4-301,
                       4-401
550-2022   12-13-2022  9-103
551-2022   12-13-2022  6-101
552-2023   2-14-2023   9-106
554-2023   2-14-2023   7-209
                      
 
