LA VISTA, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-16 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1527, passed 10-15-24
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of La Vista, Nebraska,
shall be designated as the La Vista Municipal Code and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of La Vista,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL  or COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
      CITY POLICE. Any police officer of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 7 (part))
      CLERK. The Clerk of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Sarpy County, Nebraska.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the city.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 7 (part))
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of a building or
land whether alone or with others.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations. (Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The state of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 243, passed 6-19-79)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   Whenever the words fixing or importing time or the hour of the day are used
in this code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard Time or Central
Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
(‘79 Code, § 8) (Ord. 243, passed 6-19-79)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to such ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory.
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      (7)   Appropriating money.
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 16-404
Cross-reference:
   Amendment and revisions, see §
30.49
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (Neb. RS 17-100)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Neb.
RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1979, as subsequently amended, the 1979
code section number shall be indicated in the history by (‘79 Code, §      ).”
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this section,” and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “sections      to     ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “section     ” or “sections      to     ” which are not filled in prior
to adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in applicable state statute or in another
chapter or section of this code, any person, firm, or entity that violates any
of the provisions of this code of ordinances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine in any amount not in
excess of $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed three
months, or both, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in §
92.15, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   General ordinances; authorization; jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate existence
   
11.02   Service of process
   
11.03   Powers of the city
   
11.04   Corporate seal
   
11.05   Wards
§ 11.01 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The city of La Vista, Nebraska is hereby found and declared to be a city of
more than 5,000 persons. The city shall be governed by the laws of Nebraska
regulating cities of the first class.
(Neb. RS 16-101) (‘79 Code, § 1-101)
§ 11.02 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   The city may be served process by personal, residence or certified mail
service upon the chief executive officer or the Clerk.
(Neb. RS 16-115, 25-510.02(2)) (‘79 Code, § 1-102) (Am. Ord. 371, passed 1-5-
85)
§ 11.03 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city is a body corporate and politic. It shall have the power to sue and
be sued; to purchase, lease, and lease with option to buy; to acquire property
by gift or devise; to hold real and personal property within or without the
limits of the city, and real estate sold to satisfy unpaid tax obligations for
the use of the city in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as may be
deemed in the best interests of the city; to sell, convey, exchange, or lease
any personal or real property owned by the city, including park land, in such
manner and upon such terms and conditions as may be deemed in the best
interests of the city; provided, that real estate owned by the city may be
conveyed without consideration to the state of Nebraska for state armory sites,
or if acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed in the manner strictly
as provided in Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006; to make all contracts and do
all other acts in relation to the property and concerns of the city as may be
necessary in the exercise of its corporate powers; and to exercise such other
and further powers as may be conferred by law.
(Neb. RS 16-201) (‘79 Code, § 1-103)
§ 11.04 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Corporate Seal,
Incorporated Feb. 25, 1960, City of La Vista, Sarpy County, Nebraska.” The City
Clerk shall affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants,
licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of
the City Council and countersigned by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 1-501)
Statutory reference:
   Seal requirements; related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-115
   Seal to be either engraved or ink, Neb. RS 64-118
§ 11.05 WARDS.
   (A)   Ward One shall be comprised of the specific area lying between the
boundaries described as follows:
      (1)   North boundary. North corporate limits from Gertrude Street to the
northeast corner of block 1003 of census tract 010615.
      (2)   East boundary. East corporate limits from the northeast corner of
block 1003 of census tract 010615 to south corporate limits at 66th Street and
Giles Road.
      (3)   South boundary. South corporate limits from 66th Street to 72nd
Street, 72nd Street to Valley Road, Valley Road to Edgewood Boulevard.
      (4)   West boundary. Edgewood Boulevard from Valley Road to Park View
Boulevard, Park View Boulevard to Lillian Avenue, Lillian Avenue to 77th
Avenue, 77th Avenue to Terry Drive, Terry Drive to Joseph Avenue, Joseph Avenue
to 75th Avenue, 75th Avenue to Josephine Street, Josephine Street to 76th
Street, 76th Street to Gertrude Street, Gertrude Street northwesterly to
corporate limits.
   (B)   Ward Two shall be comprised of the specific area lying between the
boundaries described as follows:
      (1)   North boundary. North corporate limits from 96th Street to Gertrude
Street.
      (2)   East boundary. Beginning at north corporate limits and Gertrude
Street, Gertrude Street to 76th Street, 76th Street to Josephine Street,
Josephine Street to 75th Avenue, 75th Avenue to Joseph Avenue, Joseph Avenue to
Terry Drive, Terry Drive to 77th Avenue, 77th Avenue to Lillian Avenue.
      (3)   South boundary. Lillian Avenue to Park View Boulevard, Park View
Boulevard to 78th Street, from 78th Street and Park View Boulevard along the
southerly boundary of block 3004 of census tract 010614 to 84th Street, from
the southwest corner of Block 3004 of Census Tract 010614 at 84th Street
continuing westerly along the south boundary of the Park View Heights, Park
View Heights 2nd Addition, S and S's Harvest Hill, and Southwind Two
subdivisions to 96th Street.
      (4)   West boundary. 96th Street from Granville Parkway north to
corporate limits at Harrison Street.
   (C)   Ward Three shall be comprised of the specific area lying between the
boundaries described as follows:
      (1)   North boundary. Brentwood Drive from 96th Street to 92nd Street,
92nd Street to Granville Parkway, Granville Parkway to Elm Drive, Elm Drive to
the south boundary of Park View Heights 2nd Addition, from Elm Drive continuing
easterly along the south boundary of the Park View Heights 2nd Addition and
Park View Heights subdivisions to 84th Street, from the southwest corner of
Block 3004 of Census Tract 010614 at 84th Street continuing easterly along the
southerly boundary of Block 3004 of Census Tract 010614 to 78th and Park View
Boulevard, Park View Boulevard to Edgewood Boulevard, Edgewood Boulevard to
Valley Road, Valley Road to 72nd Street.
      (2)   East boundary. 72nd Street from Valley Road to the south corporate
limits at Giles Road.
      (3)   South boundary. South corporate limits from 72nd Street to 96th
Street.
      (4)   West boundary. 96th Street from south corporate limits at Giles
Road to Brentwood Drive.
   (D)   Ward Four shall be comprised of the specific area lying between the
boundaries described as follows:
      (1)   North boundary. North corporate limits from Giles Road to 104th
Street, continuing along the west and south boundaries of the Cimarron Woods
subdivision to 96th Street, easterly along the south boundary of the Southwind
Two, S and S's Harvest Hill, and Park View Heights 2nd Addition to Elm Drive.
      (2)   East boundary. Elm Drive from the south boundary of the Park View
Heights 2nd Addition subdivision to Granville Parkway, Granville Parkway to
92nd Street, 92nd Street to Brentwood Drive, Brentwood Drive to 96th Street,
96th Street to south corporate limits.
      (3)   South boundary. South corporate limits from 96th Street to I-80 and
approximately West Giles Road, excluding land area bounded by corporate limits
but not within the city.
      (4)   West boundary. West corporate limits from approximately West Giles
Road and Interstate 80 north to Giles Road and Harrison Street.
(Ord. 796, passed 12-7-99; Am. Ord. 996, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 1049, passed
11-6-07; Am. Ord. 1205, passed 11-17-13; Am. Ord. 1435, passed 12-7-21)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENTS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   CIVIL SERVICE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL; ORDINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Qualifications
   
30.02   (Reserved)
   
30.03   Elected officials enumerated
Mayor
   
30.15   Selection and duties
   
30.16   Emergency authority
City Council
   
30.25   Selection and duties
   
30.26   President; Acting President
   
30.27   Organization
   
30.28   Standing subcommittees
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.40   Grant of power
   
30.41   Rules and regulations
   
30.42   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.43   Appropriation or payment of money
   
30.44   Style
   
30.45   Title
   
30.46   Reading and passage
   
30.47   Publication
   
30.48   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.49   Amendments and revisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the city.
Elected officials may hold any other elective office, subject to the
limitations found in Neb. RS and 32-604. Further, except as provided in §
33.57 of this title, such elected officials shall not be interested in the
profits or the emoluments of any contract, job, work or service for the city.
(‘79 Code, § 1-201) (Am. Ord. 764, passed 4-20-99)
Statutory reference:
   Residence requirements, see Neb. RS 16-305
   Contracts and conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.01
   Directors and employees of special districts and utility companies, Neb. RS
70-624.04
Cross-reference:
   Property, see §
33.01
   Charges against officials, see §
33.02
   Bonds, see §
33.40
   Oath of office, see §
33.41
   Compensation, see §§
33.55 through
33.57
§ 30.02 (RESERVED).
§ 30.03 ELECTED OFFICIALS ENUMERATED.
   The electors of the city shall elect a Mayor at large and two City Council
members from each ward. Council members shall be registered voters of the city
and residents of the ward from which they were elected. Terms of all elected
officials shall commence on the first regular meeting in December of each
election year.
(‘79 Code, § 1-203)
Statutory reference:
   Ward residency required, see Neb. RS 16-302.01
Cross-reference:
   Ward boundaries, see §
11.05
MAYOR
§ 30.15 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be elected to serve a four-year term of office. The Mayor
shall preside at all the meetings of the City Council. The Mayor may vote on
any matter that requires either a majority vote of the Council members or a
majority vote of all the elected members of the Council if the Mayor's vote is
required due to the Council members being equally divided or a majority of the
Council members or majority vote of all the elected members cannot be reached
due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of one or more Council members. For
purposes of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member of the Council. The
Mayor shall have the superintending control of all the officers and affairs of
the city and shall take care that ordinances of the city and provisions of law
relating to cities of the first class are complied with. He or she may
administer oaths and shall sign the commissions and appointments of all the
officers appointed in the city. The Mayor shall have the power to approve or
veto any ordinance passed by the City Council and to approve or veto any order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance
of any claim; provided, that any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award or
vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the
Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of all the
members elected to the City Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign
any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award or vote to enter into any
contract or the allowance of any claim and returns the same with his or her
objection in writing at the next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall
become law without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items
of any appropriation bill and approve the remainder thereof. The item or items
so vetoed may be passed by the Council over his or her veto as in other cases.
The Mayor shall from time to time communicate to the Council such information
and recommend such measures as in his or her opinion may tend to improve the
finances of the city, the police, health, comfort, and general prosperity of
the city, and may have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her by
ordinance over all places within two miles of the corporate limits of the city
for the enforcement of health or quarantine laws and the regulation thereof.
The Mayor shall have the power after the conviction of any person to remit
fines and forfeitures and to grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses
arising under the laws of the city. In the event that there is a vacancy in the
office of Mayor, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with applicable
provisions of the Election Act, as amended from time to time, including without
limitation Neb. RS 32-568.
(Neb. RS 16-312, 16-313, 16-314, and 16-316) (‘79 Code, § 1-204) (Am. Ord.
1465, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 10-15-24)
§ 30.16 EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Findings. The Mayor and City Council hereby find and determine as
follows:
      (1)   The city is authorized to adopt such ordinances and take such
actions as necessary or appropriate for public health, comfort, safety,
welfare, and interests, including without limitation such authorization as set
forth in Neb. RS 16-238, 16-240, 16-246, 16-314, 16-405, the Emergency
Management Act, and the city's emergency operations plan, as any from time to
time may be adopted or amended: and
      (2)   Pursuant to such authority, the City Council adopts this section
authorizing the Mayor in the event of an emergency to temporarily suspend or
modify certain regulatory requirements within the city or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Authority. If a state of emergency is declared by the Governor or
Mayor with respect to areas within the city or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to the Emergency Management Act or other applicable laws,
rules, or regulations, the Mayor shall be authorized to temporarily suspend or
modify any regulatory laws, rules, regulations, policies, or procedures of the
city, including without limitation any transportation, traffic, or zoning laws,
rules, regulations, policies, or procedures, or enforcement thereof, for a
period of up to 60 days, subject to renewal for one or more additional periods,
as the Mayor determines necessary or appropriate to address or respond to the
emergency or to reduce, eliminate, or limit the impact or effects of, or
factors or circumstances causing, comprising, or contributing to, the emergency
or its spread, severity, or duration. The Mayor promptly after taking action
pursuant to this section, and no later than the next City Council meeting,
shall advise the City Council of the action taken. The City Council at any time
at any regular, special, or emergency meeting shall be authorized to terminate,
add to, subtract from, or modify any action of the Mayor pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 1399, passed 10-20-20)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.25 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. One Council member from each ward shall be elected at each election, so
that terms are staggered. The City Council shall be the legislative division of
the city government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may
be authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(‘79 Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Officers; election; qualifications; term, Neb. RS 16-302.01
   Cities of the first class; officers; wards; terms; qualifications, see Neb.
RS 32-534
§ 30.26 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body, in each year that new
members' terms commence, who shall be styled the President of the Council and
who shall preside at all meetings of the City Council in the absence of the
Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City
Council shall elect one of its own body to occupy that place temporarily, who
shall be styled Acting President of the Council. Both the President of the
Council and the Acting President of the Council, when occupying the position of
the Mayor, shall have the same privileges as the other members of the City
Council, and all acts of the President of the Council, or Acting President of
the Council, while so acting, shall be as binding upon the City Council and
upon the city as if done by the elected Mayor.
(Neb. RS 16-402) (‘79 Code, § 1-206)
§ 30.27 ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of this city shall take office and commence their
duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election. The
newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together
with the members of the City Council holding over shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk shall
report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-elect who have
qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon
the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of the city shall
be represented by at least two Council members. No person shall be eligible who
is not at the time of election an actual resident of the ward for which the
person is qualified. If any City Council member moves from the ward from which
the Council member was elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(‘79 Code, § 1-208)
§ 30.28 STANDING SUBCOMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
from among members of the City Council such standing subcommittees as the City
Council may by ordinance, or resolution, create. No such subcommittee shall
have authority to take formal action on behalf of the City Council. The
membership of such standing subcommittees may be changed at any time by the
Mayor with the approval of the majority of the City Council. The Mayor shall be
a member ex officio of each standing subcommittee. The members of the standing
subcommittees shall serve a term of office of two years, unless reappointed.
(‘79 Code, § 2-101)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.40 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state of Nebraska, as may be
necessary or expedient, in addition to the special powers otherwise granted by
law, for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce and manufactures for preserving order and securing persons or
property from violence, danger and destruction, for protecting public and
private property and for promoting the public health, safety, convenience,
comfort, morals and general interests and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city.
(Neb. RS 16-246) (‘79 Code, § 1-701) (Am. Ord. 696, passed 10-7-97)
§ 30.41 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances shall be passed pursuant to such rules and regulations as the
City Council may provide, and all such ordinances may be proved by the
certificate of the Clerk under the seal of the city. When printed or published
in book, pamphlet, or electronic form, and purporting to be published by
authority of the city, such ordinances shall be read and received in evidence
in all courts and places without further proof. The passage, approval, and
publication or posting of ordinances shall be sufficiently proved by a
certificate under seal of the city, from the Clerk, showing that the ordinance
was passed and approved, and when and in what paper it was published, and when
and by whom and where it was posted. When ordinances are published in book,
pamphlet, or electronic form, purporting to be published by authority of the
City Council, it need not be otherwise published and the book, pamphlet, or
electronic form shall be received as evidence of the passage and legal
publication of the ordinances, as of the date mentioned in the book, pamphlet,
or electronic form, in all courts, without further proof.
(Neb. RS 16-403) (‘79 Code, § 1-702) (Am. Ord. 1465, passed 12-6-22)
§ 30.42 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Resolutions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed for
the introduction of ordinances; provided, however, resolutions shall not be
required to be read by title on three different days. After their introduction,
written resolutions having a title shall be fully and distinctly read by title
in the presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City
Council. Any written resolution not having a title shall, after its
introduction, be fully and distinctly read in its entirety upon the request of
any member of the City Council who is present at the meeting.
   (B)   Motions shall be made, and the issue raised by any resolution or
motion shall be disposed of, in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
set forth in §
33.24 or as otherwise adopted for the guidance of City Council. Unless
otherwise provided by applicable law, a majority vote shall be required to pass
any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll
call vote or by use of electronic voting device that allows the yeas and nays
of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(‘79 Code, § 1-710) (Am. Ord. 682, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 959, passed 8-2-05)
§ 30.43 APPROPRIATION OR PAYMENT OF MONEY.
   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or payment of
money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of a majority
of all elected members to the Council. The Mayor may vote on any such matter if
the Mayor's vote is required due to the Council members being equally divided
or a majority vote of all the elected members cannot be reached due to absence,
vacancy, or abstention of one or more Council members. For purposes of such
vote the Mayor is deemed to be a member of the Council.
(Neb. RS 16-404) (‘79 Code, § 1-703) (Am. Ord. 496, passed 2-6-90; Am. Ord.
1523, passed 10-15-24)
§ 30.44 STYLE.
   The style of all city ordinances shall be:
   “Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of La Vista, Nebraska:
….”
(Neb. RS 16-405) (‘79 Code, § 1-706)
§ 30.45 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 16-404) (‘79 Code, § 1-707)
§ 30.46 READING AND PASSAGE.
   (A)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless three-fourths of the members of the City Council
vote to suspend this requirement.
   (B)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
      (1)   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory or redrawing of
wards; or
      (2)   As otherwise provided by applicable law.
   (C)   In the case such requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title or number and then moved for final passage.
   (D)   Three-fourths of the members of the City Council may require a reading
of any ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in
this section.
(Neb. RS 16-404) (‘79 Code, § 1-704) (Am. Ord. 627, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord.
1346, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1440, passed 2-1-22; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 10-15-
24)
§ 30.47 PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All ordinances of a general nature shall, within 15 days after they
are passed, be published one time:
      (1)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the city;
or
      (2)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form. Publication is in the
Papillion Times and on the city’s website, with the Omaha World Herald being
the backup newspaper needed.
   (B)   Every ordinance fixing a penalty or forfeiture for its violation
shall, before the same takes effect, be published for at least one week in some
manner prescribed in this section.
(Neb. RS 16-405) (‘79 Code, § 1-705) (Am. Ord. 406, passed 12-3-85; Am. Ord.
697, passed 10-7-97; Am. Ord. 1346, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 12-6-
22)
§ 30.48 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.47 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
city which has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the
voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of
the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riots, infectious diseases or other impending danger,
or any other emergency requiring its immediate operation, an ordinance shall
take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor immediately upon the first
publication of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 16-405)
   (C)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on the City
Clerk's minutes.
(‘79 Code, § 1-708) (Am. Ord. 698, passed 10-7-97)
§ 30.49 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 16-404) (‘79 Code, § 1-709) (Am. Ord. 699, passed 10-7-97)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 16-247 and
16-404
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Appointed officials enumerated
   
31.02   Creation of office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Term of office
   
31.05   Duties prescribed
   
31.06   Reports
   
31.07   Vacancy
Officials
   
31.20   City Attorney
   
31.21   City Treasurer
   
31.211   Assistant City Treasurer
   
31.22   City Clerk
   
31.23   City Administrator
   
31.231   Assistant City Administrator
   
31.24   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.25   Public Works Director
   
31.26   Chief of Police
   
31.27   Building and Zoning Inspector
   
31.28   Recreation Director
   
31.29   Librarian
   
31.30   Fire Chief
Cross-reference:
   Property, see §
33.01
   Charges against officials, see §
33.02
   Bonds, see §
33.40
   Oath of office, see §
33.41
   Compensation, see §§
33.55 through
33.57
   Fire Chief and assistants, duties, see §
34.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTED OFFICIALS ENUMERATED.
   The Mayor shall, by and with the approval of a majority of the City Council,
appoint an Administrator, Finance Director, Clerk, Attorney, City Engineer,
Public Works Superintendent, City Physician and Chief of Police. Whenever the
title City Treasurer, Treasurer, or a comparable title is used in the Nebraska
Revised Statutes or this code of ordinances, or the ordinances, regulations,
contracts, personnel documents, and other documents of the city, in reference
to the treasurer of the city, the title shall be deemed to mean the Finance
Director of the city, who shall perform all of the duties of the Treasurer
prescribed by statute or ordinance as well as such other and additional duties
as may be directed or prescribed by the city. The City Administrator shall also
appoint a Librarian, a Building and Zoning Inspector, and a Recreation
Director. All appointed officers may be removed at any time by the Mayor with
the approval of the majority of the Council and the advice of the City
Administrator. All confirmations of appointments to such offices by the Council
shall be made by roll call or viva voce vote, and the concurrence of a majority
shall be required. The vote by "yeas" and "nays" shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote may be satisfied by the use of an
electronic voting device, which allows the yeas and nays of each Council member
to be readily seen by the public.
(‘79 Code, § 1-301) (Am. Ord. 822, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 869, passed 10-1-
02; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 10-15-24)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 31.02 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The City Council may create any office that it may deem necessary for the
good government and interest of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 1-304)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any
such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and
the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged or combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined.
(Neb. RS 16-305) (‘79 Code, § 1-308) (Am. Ord. 373, passed 1-15-85; Am. Ord.
522, passed 3-5-91)
§ 31.04 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All officers appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall hold
the office to which they may be appointed until the end of the Mayor's term of
office and until their successors are appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed or the ordinance creating the office is repealed, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
(Neb. RS 16-309) (‘79 Code, § 1-303) (Am. Ord. 869, passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord.
1524, passed 10-15-24)
§ 31.05 DUTIES PRESCRIBED.
   The City Council may regulate and prescribe by ordinance the powers, duties
and compensation of the officers of the city not specifically delineated by
state law. The City Council may classify the several offices and positions of
trust or employment in the public service on the basis of merit through such
agency as the City Council shall provide for that purpose, upon approval by a
majority of the electors of the city voting on such proposition.
(Neb. RS 16-218) (‘79 Code, § 1-305)
§ 31.06 REPORTS.
   The City Council may require from any officer of the city at any time a
report in detail of the transactions of his or her office or of any matters
connected therewith.
(Neb. RS 16-220) (‘79 Code, § 1-306)
§ 31.07 VACANCY.
   Whenever any vacancy shall occur in an appointive office for any reason,
including removal of the official, the Mayor shall fill the office in the
manner prescribed for the appointment of new appointed officials for the
unexpired term.
(‘79 Code, § 1-302)
OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council and city
officers. The City Attorney shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and
actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the
city, or that may be ordered by the City Council. The City Attorney shall
attend meetings of the City Council and give opinions on matters submitted to
him or her, either orally or in writing as may be required. The Mayor and City
Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney additional compensation
for legal services provided for the city or to employ additional legal
assistance out of funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 16-319) (‘79 Code, § 1-307)
§ 31.21 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the city
and shall keep books and accounts in such a manner as the Mayor and City
Council shall prescribe. The Treasurer shall keep a daily cash book, which
shall be footed and balanced daily, and such books and accounts shall always be
subject to inspection of the Mayor, members of the City Council, and such other
persons as they may designate.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep all money in his or her hands belonging to
the city separate and distinct from the Treasurer's own money. The Treasurer is
hereby expressly prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the
corporation money or warrants in his or her custody and keeping for his or her
own use and benefit or that of any other person whomsoever. Any violation of
this provision shall subject the Treasurer to immediate removal from office by
the City Council, and it may declare such office vacant. The Mayor shall
appoint a successor who shall be confirmed by the City Council to hold office
for the remainder of the term.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall be required to give bond or evidence of
equivalent insurance of not less than $25,000, or he or she may be required to
give bond in double the sum of money estimated by the City Council at any time
to be in his or her hands belonging to the city. The Treasurer shall be the
custodian of all money belonging to the corporation. The City Council shall pay
the actual premium of the bond or insurance coverage of such Treasurer. The
Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the
debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person paying
money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying date of payment and on
what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such receipts, except
tax receipts, with his or her monthly reports; and he or she shall at the end
of every month, and as often as may be requested, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom, and the balance of money in the treasury. The Treasurer shall also
accompany such account with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her account in
the Clerk's office. He or she shall produce and show all funds shown by such
report to be on hand or satisfy the Council or its committee that he or she has
such funds in his or her custody or under his or her control. If the Treasurer
fails to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month,
or by a later date established by the Council, the Mayor with the consent of
the Council may consider this failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from
office. The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the
city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof. The Treasurer may employ and
appoint a delinquent tax collector, who shall be allowed a percentage upon his
or her collections to be fixed by the Council not to exceed the fees allowed by
law to the County Treasurer for like services. Upon taxes collected by such
delinquent tax collector, the Treasurer shall receive no fees. The Treasurer
shall prepare all special assessment lists and shall collect all special
assessments. The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums paid into the
Treasury, which receipts shall:
      (1)   Specify the date of payment and what account paid;
      (2)   Show the source from which such funds are derived; and
      (3)   By distinct lines and columns, show the amount received to the
credit of each separate fund, and whether same was paid in cash, in warrants,
or otherwise, one of which duplicates the Treasurer shall deliver to the person
making such payment and the other he or her shall retain in his or her office
and file such copy (except tax receipts) with his or her monthly reports.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall daily, as moneys are received, foot the several
columns of his or her cashbook and of his or her register, and carry the
amounts forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money
received by the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or
she shall close the account for that year in such register and shall carry
forward the excess. Any Treasurer who shall fail regularly to enter upon his or
her cashbook the amounts so received and receipted for, or who shall fail to
keep his or her cashbook footed from day to day for the space of three days,
shall forfeit for each offense the sum of $100 to be recovered in a civil
action on his or her official bond by any person holding a warrant drawn on
such Treasurer, one-half to the person bringing such action and one-half to the
school fund of the county in which the action is brought. The cashbook,
register and retained receipts of the Treasurer shall at all times be open to
the inspection of any person in whose name any warrants are registered and
unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually, within 60 days
following the close of the city fiscal year, a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3). Not more than
the legal rate shall be charged and paid for such publication. Such publication
shall be made in one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city.
If no legal newspaper in or of general circulation is published in the city,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published in or of
general circulation within the county in which the city is located. Any
Treasurer failing or neglecting to prepare and publish such statement of
receipts and expenditures shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
upon conviction pay a fine not to exceed $25 and be liable in addition to
removal from office for such failure or neglect.
   (E)   (1)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register which shall show in
columns arranged for that purpose, the number, date and amount of each warrant
presented and registered; the particular fund upon which the same is drawn; the
date of presentation; the name and address of the person in whose name the same
is registered; the date of payment; and the amount of interest and the total
amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the person in whose name such
warrant is registered is mailed.
      (2)   On presentation of a warrant for payment to the Treasurer when
there are not sufficient moneys on hand to the credit of the proper fund to pay
the same, it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to enter such warrant in his or
her warrant register for payment in the order of its presentation, and he or
she shall endorse on the warrant the words “registered for payment” with the
date of registration and shall sign such endorsement; whereupon the warrant
shall draw interest at the rate fixed by the Mayor and City Council, which rate
shall be endorsed on the warrant, until notice of payment shall be given the
registered owner.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall neither directly or indirectly contract for or
purchase any city warrant at any discount whatever upon the sum due on such
warrant or order, and if he or she shall so contract for or purchase any such
order or warrant, he or she shall not be allowed in settlement the amount of
such order or warrant, or any part thereof, and shall also forfeit the whole
amount due on such order or warrant.
(79 Code, §§ 1-309 through 1-313) (Am. Ord. 1026, passed 5-1-07; Am. Ord. 1076,
passed 10-21-08; Am. Ord. 1255, passed 7-7-15; Am. Ord. 1441, passed 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state provisions, Neb RS 16-318, 19-1101, 19-1103, 19-1104, 45-106,
77-2202, 77-2203, 77-2209 through 77-2212, 77-1741
   Treasurer's statutory duties, Neb. RS 16-717 through 16-722
Cross-reference:
   Finance Director to perform duties of the City Treasurer, see §
31.01 of this code of ordinances
§ 31.211 ASSISTANT CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Assistant City Treasurer
who, under the direction of the City Treasurer, shall assist the City Treasurer
in carrying out the City Treasurer’s duties and responsibilities. The office of
Assistant City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Administrator with the
approval of the Mayor, and shall serve at their pleasure. The Assistant City
Treasurer shall receive such compensation and allowances as the Mayor and City
Council may prescribe by ordinance. The Assistant City Treasurer shall perform
such duties as the City Treasurer shall assign or delegate to him or her.
During such times as the City Treasurer shall be absent from the city, or
otherwise unable or incapacitated from performing his or her duties, the
Assistant City Treasurer shall be vested with the powers of, and shall perform
the duties and responsibilities of, the City Treasurer.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, "Finance Director" and "City Treasurer"
shall be synonymous, the Assistant City Treasurer shall be deemed the Assistant
Finance Director, and the Assistant City Treasurer’s duties shall include
assisting or performing duties or responsibilities of the City Treasurer as
assigned or delegated by the City Treasurer from time to time.
(Ord. 1479, passed 5-2-23)
§ 31.22 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall, with the consent of a majority of the Council,
appoint the City Clerk. Except when some other person is specifically
appointed, the Clerk shall be and assume the duties of the City Treasurer. It
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to attend every meeting of the Council and
keep a record of the proceedings thereof. Whenever required by the Mayor or
requested by four members of the Council, he or she shall deliver a notice to
the members of the Council of any special meeting thereof and shall notify any
and all committees of the Council of the business entrusted to them.
      (2)   The Clerk shall keep and carefully preserve all papers and books
which may come into his or her possession as Clerk, filing and arranging them
in a manner convenient for reference.
      (3)   The Clerk shall keep the seal of the city and duly attest thereby
the Mayor's signature to all ordinances and all deeds and papers required to be
attested, when ordered by the City Council.
      (4)   The Clerk shall keep all orders for money or warrants for the
payment of money and shall enter the same in numerical order in a book to be
kept for that purpose.
      (5)   The Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses granted and the
purpose for which they were issued and report to the Council at every meeting.
At the beginning of each month, he or she shall, if required by the City
Council, furnish the Police Department with a true copy of the register of all
licenses then in force. He or she shall issue licenses and collect license fees
connected therewith as provided by the laws of Nebraska or the city.
      (6)   Within the time after any meeting of the Council as required by
applicable law, the Clerk shall prepare and publish the proceedings of the
Council in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city or more than
one legal newspaper if directed by the Council. The charge for said publication
shall not exceed the rates provided by law. The publication charge shall be
paid and allowed as other claims against the General Fund.
      (7)   Wherever the Clerk is required to issue licenses, occupation tax
receipts or permits, the City Clerk shall collect the amount required to be
paid by the applicant therefor.
      (8)   The Clerk shall have such additional duties and receive such salary
as the City Council may prescribe.
(‘79 Code, § 1-314)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall include in the minutes of each meeting, available
for public inspection as required in §
33.19, the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim and the name
of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee
job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to
such job titles shall be published and each job title shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position.
(‘79 Code, § 1-315) (Am. Ord. 396, passed 11-5-85; Am. Ord. 562, passed 5-4-93;
Am. Ord. 1466, passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Required duties, bonds, and reports, see Neb. RS 16-317 and 19-1102 through
19-1104
§ 31.23 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the city the office of City
Administrator. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer
of the city and shall serve as administrative agent for the Mayor and City
Council in the supervision of the offices and good government of the city. All
the departments of the city shall be under the administrative supervision and
direction of the City Administrator, and the Mayor and Council shall deal with
all departments of the city and employees through the City Administrator.
   (B)   The office of City Administrator shall be filled by appointment of the
Mayor by and with the consent of the majority of the City Council and shall
serve at their pleasure. He or she need not be a resident of the city at the
time of his or her appointment, but shall become a resident within such
reasonable time as the Council and Mayor may allow. The City Administrator
shall receive such compensation and allowances as the Mayor and Council may
prescribe by ordinance.
   (C)   In the performance of his or her role as chief administrative officer
of the city, the City Administrator shall have the following duties and powers:
      (1)   He or she shall take charge of and direct the operations of all
city departments.
      (2)   He or she shall have the power, subject to the provisions of the
civil service law, to employ, discipline and remove all nonelected employees of
the city provided, however, that in respect to appointments to and removals
from offices of City Treasurer, City Clerk, City Engineer, City Attorney,
Public Works Superintendent, City Physician, Fire Chief and the Chief of Police
the same shall be made by the Mayor and Council in the manner provided in Neb.
RS 16-308, with the advice of the City Administrator.
      (3)   He or she shall insure the enforcement of all laws and ordinances
within the city and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction insofar as their
enforcement is within the power of the city and consistent with the policy of
the Mayor and City Council. He or she shall have supervision of the Police
Department. Except for purposes of inquiry, the City Administrator shall deal
with the members of the Police Department through the Chief of Police, except
at such times as the Chief is unavailable. The Mayor and City Council shall
constitute the "appointing authority" under the civil service law as to members
of the Police Department, except that the City Administrator shall exercise
those powers delegated to him or her under the civil service law pursuant to
Chapter 37 of this code.
      (4)   He or she shall serve as the City Planning Director and shall
advise both the City Planning Commission and the City Council in matters
pertaining to the planning of the city.
      (5)   He or she shall prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council the
annual budget, together with his or her recommendations and comments. He or she
shall be responsible for the execution and administration of the adopted
budget. He or she shall supervise the maintenance and custody of all accounts
and records of the city and shall provide the Mayor and Council with a report
of the financial condition of the city at such times as the Mayor and City
Council may require.
      (6)   He or she shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of all
city property.
      (7)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Mayor and Council and
advise the Council in all matters pertaining to the city and its affairs.
      (8)   He or she shall supervise the performance of all contracts and
agreements to which the city is a part.
      (9)   He or she shall serve as purchasing agent of the city, and no
purchase will be made without his or her approval. In no case will he or she
make or approve any such purchase unless the funds for same have been duly
appropriated by the Mayor and Council, and as to those purchases where the
amount involved exceeds $5,000, he or she shall first obtain the approval of
the Mayor and Council.
      (10)   He or she shall recommend to the Mayor and Council such measures
as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the good government and
welfare of the city.
      (11)   He or she shall perform such other duties as the Mayor and Council
may from time to time assign.
   (D)   The City Administrator may designate such city employees from time to
time as necessary or appropriate to assist in carrying out the duties set forth
in division (C), subject to his or her supervision and direction.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall take no part in any election held for the
purpose of electing the Mayor, members of the City Council or other elective
city office of the city, except for the casting of his or her individual
ballot. The City Administrator shall be an officer of the city within the
meaning of Neb. RS 16-502 and shall be subject to and bound by the prohibitions
therein contained. Before taking office, the City Administrator shall file with
the City Clerk a bond in favor of the city for the faithful performance of his
or her duties in the amount of $5,000, or such blanket bond or other bond or
insurance in lieu of individual bond as permitted by §
33.40(B). The premium of said bond shall be paid by the city.
(‘79 Code, § 1-316) (Ord. 127, passed - -; Am. Ord. 298, passed 3-16-82; Am.
Ord. 397, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 440, passed 5-19-87; Am. Ord. 869, passed
10-1-02; Am. Ord. 1077, passed 10-21-08; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 10-15-24)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and removal authorized, see Neb. RS 16-308
   Compensation restricted, see Neb. RS 16-502
§ 31.231 ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby established the office of Assistant City Administrator who,
under the direction of the City Administrator, shall assist in the supervision
of offices and good government of the city. The office of Assistant City
Administrator shall be appointed by the City Administrator with the approval of
the Mayor and shall serve at their pleasure. The Assistant City Administrator
shall receive such compensation and allowances as the Mayor and City Council
may prescribe by ordinance. The Assistant City Administrator shall perform such
duties as the City Administrator shall assign or delegate to him/her, and
during such times as the City Administrator shall be absent from the city, or
otherwise unable or incapacitated from performing his/her duties, the Assistant
City Administrator shall be vested with the powers of, and shall perform the
duties and responsibilities of, the City Administrator.
(Ord. 825, passed 1-16-01)
§ 31.24 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   City Engineer. The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or
City Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be
done or furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates,
and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of
streets, and the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other
duties as the City Council may require. When the city has appointed a Board of
Public Works, and the Mayor and City Council have by ordinance so authorized,
the Board may utilize its own engineering staff and may hire consulting
engineers for the design and installation of extensions and improvements of the
works under the jurisdiction of the board. Whenever authorized by the Mayor and
City Council, the Board may purchase material and employ labor for the
enlargement or improvement of the systems and works under the jurisdiction of
the Board.
(Neb. RS 16-321)
   (B)   Special Engineer. The City Council may employ a Special Engineer to
make or assist the City Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or
other work. The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or
her surveys and all other work done for the city. He or she shall, when
directed by the City Council, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and
maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the City Council. He or she shall,
upon request of the City Council, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the city and make all
surveys, estimates and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades,
bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power
plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets
and erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the city and shall be turned over to his or her
successor.
(79 Code, § 1-317)
Statutory reference:
   Employment of special engineer authorized, see Neb. RS 16-322
§ 31.25 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall be subject to the orders of the City
Council by resolution and under the immediate supervision of the City
Administrator. The Public Works Director shall have general charge, direction
and control over all work on the streets, sidewalks, parks, rights-of-way,
sewers, culverts, and bridges of the city except where some other official is
specifically designated as the official in charge of such improvements. He or
she shall perform such other duties and make such reports as the City Council
may require. It shall be his or her duty to see that sidewalks and the sidewalk
space are not unlawfully occupied. He or she shall report all obstructions
thereon and any unlawful use of the same to the City Council, except where the
laws of the city require him or her to take direct action against violators of
the city law governing the public ways and property. He or she shall have the
authority to go upon private property at reasonable hours in the exercise of
his or her official duties. He or she shall serve all notices pertaining to
sidewalks, streets, alleys and other property unless some other official is
specifically required to serve such notices. It shall be his or her duty to
keep in a suitable book an accurate record of the performance of his or her
official duties which shall include such information as may be required by the
City Administrator or the City Council.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall also have immediate supervision over
the sewage transportation system and shall supervise and inspect repairs and
maintenance work on the city sewer system. The Public Works Director shall
enforce the laws of the city relating to the Sewer Department as well as carry
out any order or directive of the City Administrator. All employees under his
or her direction shall obey his or her orders. The Director, or his or her duly
authorized agent, shall have free access at proper hours of the day to all
parts of each premises and building to or in which sewer service is furnished
to examine the pipes and fixtures and ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violation of city law.
(‘79 Code, § 1-318)
Cross reference:
   Public works, see Title V
§ 31.26 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the immediate superintendence of the
police. The Chief of Police shall maintain the police department in a state of
readiness to promptly respond to any emergency, manmade or natural disaster,
crime, traffic or other accident, or other call for service or assistance. The
Police Chief and officers of the police department shall have the power, and it
shall be their duty, to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state or
of the city, by day or by night, in the same manner as a sheriff, and keep them
in the city prison or other place to prevent their escape until a trial or
examination may be had before the proper officer; and they shall have the same
power as a sheriff in relation to all criminal matters arising out of a
violation of a city law and all process issued by the county court in
connection with a violation of a city law.
   (B)   In accordance with the authority provided hereunder, the Chief of
Police shall have the following duties and responsibilities, including but not
limited to, in some cases, seeing that particular requirements or conditions
are maintained:
      (1)   Police officers shall at all times while on duty be properly
uniformed; when appropriate, city-provided uniforms, badges, and insignia shall
be worn.
      (2)   Equipment of the department shall be properly used and well-
maintained.
      (3)   Police officers shall be well-informed and trained as to the laws
of the state and laws of the city, and enforcement of such laws, as well as the
modern methods of policing, crime detection, and prevention.
      (4)   Community relations programs shall be implemented from time to time
as are necessary or appropriate to develop or maintain positive relationships
between the police department and the community.
      (5)   Rules and regulations of the police department shall be developed,
promulgated, and enforced, and a high level of discipline will be maintained
within the department.
      (6)   Safekeeping and proper custody of all city property used by the
police department, all found property that is turned into the police
department, and all evidence recovered from crime scenes.
      (7)   Execution of orders of the Mayor.
      (8)   Carrying out traffic control on city streets.
      (9)   Making or filing, or causing to be made or filed complaints for
violations of the ordinances of the city, as necessary or appropriate.
      (10)   Maintaining custody and control of the city detention facility and
the prisoners within and preventing their escape from same.
      (11)   The Chief of Police shall be a member of the Board of Health, and
Secretary and quarantine officer of said Board.
      (12)   The Chief of Police shall have such other duties as are assigned
to or required of him or her by the Mayor and Council or otherwise provided by
applicable law, rule, or regulation.
(‘79 Code, § 1-319)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal police authority, see Neb. RS 16-225
   Duties on Board of Health, see Neb. RS 16-238
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 16-323 and 29-401
Cross reference:
   Police Department, see §§
34.25 et seq.
§ 31.27 BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Building and Zoning Inspector is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all the provisions of the city code pertaining to zoning
regulation, building construction and repair. For such purpose, he or she shall
have the powers of the city police.
      (2)   In accordance with his or her duties and upon presentation of
proper credentials, the Building and Zoning Inspector, or his or her duly
authorized representative, may enter at all reasonable times any building,
structure or premises to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by any
Building Code, Electrical Code, Plumbing Code or Gas Code duly adopted by
reference in the city code, or any provision of the city code. Whenever any
building or construction work is being done contrary to the provisions of said
codes, it shall be the duty of the Building and Zoning Inspector to order the
work stopped, by notice, in writing, served on any persons engaged in doing or
causing the work to be done. Any such person shall immediately stop, or cause
to be stopped, said work until authorization is received from the Building and
Zoning Inspector to continue the work. When any structure is in a dangerous
condition or the building is being used contrary to the provisions of the laws
of the city, the Building and Zoning Inspector may order such use discontinued
or the structure, or portion thereof, in violation vacated. The Building and
Zoning Inspector, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of
his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally
liable and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act or omission in the
discharge of his or her duties.
      (3)   Any suit brought against the Building and Zoning Inspector, because
of an alleged act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any
provision of the city codes relating to buildings or building construction
shall be defended by the legal department of the city until final termination
of the proceedings.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Building and Zoning Inspector to
view and inspect all lots and parcels of land for weeds and worthless
vegetation upon complaint or otherwise as often as may required. It shall be
the duty of the Building and Zoning Inspector to view and inspect all sidewalks
contiguous to public property within the city to ascertain if any snow, ice,
mud, or other obstructions encroach into or upon said sidewalks.
   (C)   The Building and Zoning Inspector may request, and shall receive so
far as may be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance
and cooperation of other officials of the city.
   (D)   The Inspector shall have such additional duties and make such reports
as the City Council may prescribe from time to time.
(‘79 Code, § 1-320)
Cross reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Zoning regulations, see
Chapter 153
§ 31.28 RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Recreation Director shall be appointed by the City Administrator.
The Recreation Director shall plan, direct and supervise city recreational
activities on the city playgrounds, parks, and recreational areas.
   (B)   The Recreation Director shall also assist the Park and Recreation
Advisory Committee in the performance of its duty by:
      (1)   Advice and recommendations to the Committee on matters related to
its duties for the Committee's consideration and recommendation to the City
Council.
      (2)   Advice and recommendations to the Committee on other policy matters
as may be appropriate from time to time.
      (3)   Making recommendations and soliciting input from the Committee on
such recreational matters that necessitate subsequent City Council approval or
disapproval.
(‘79 Code, § 1-321)
Cross reference:
   Additional provisions regarding the Park and Recreation Advisory Committee,
see §
32.07
   Leisure and recreation, see
Chapter 90
§ 31.29 LIBRARIAN.
   The Librarian shall be appointed by the City Administrator. It shall be the
duty of the Librarian to have daily charge over the City Library and to
administer the rules and regulations for the management, operation and use of
the City Library.
(‘79 Code, § 1-322)
Statutory reference:
   Library Board of Advisors authorized to appoint librarian, see Neb. RS 51-
211(1)
Cross reference:
   City Administrator authorized to appoint librarian, see §
90.70
   Library generally, see §§
90.70 et seq.
§ 31.30 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be Fire Chief who is determined and appointed
from time to time pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement among the
city, City of Papillion and Papillion Rural Fire Protection District dated
October 1, 2013, as amended or superseded from time to time, ("Fire
Interlocal"), and such Fire Chief shall have such duties and responsibilities
from time to time specified or determined by or in accordance with the such
Fire Interlocal and applicable law, including without limitation, the immediate
superintendence, operation and administration of the Fire Department, its
facilities, equipment and other property, firefighters, emergency medical
services ("EMS") and other personnel, abatement, suppression, mitigation, and
prevention of fire and other hazards, and carrying out fire, safety and other
inspections within the city. Provided, however, prior approval of the City
Council shall be required with respect to any of the following matters if the
city will be expected to pay a share of applicable costs or expenses:
      (1)   Acquisition of any direct or indirect interest in real property;
      (2)   Any budgeted or nonbudgeted expenditure, or series of related
expenditures, by purchase, lease or any other method totaling $50,000 or more;
      (3)   Increase of 5% or more of annual budgeted or actual expenditures;
      (4)   Property tax levy on property within the city;
      (5)   Issuance or commitment to bonded debt, lease purchase or any
similar indebtedness, financing or obligation; or
      (6)   Conveyance of any real property, or interest therein, pursuant to
the Fire Interlocal.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be the primary point of contact for the city and
attend meetings of the City Council or other meetings of the city to provide
updates and address any issues from time to time. The Fire Chief also shall be
a member of the Board of Health. Except for such service on the Board of
Health, the Fire Chief shall be authorized to appoint one or more designees to
carry out any responsibilities under the Fire Interlocal or applicable law. For
all purposes of the code or applicable law, FIRE CHIEF, means the Fire Chief
who is designated or acting pursuant to the Fire Interlocal, and the Fire
Department that is acting pursuant to the Fire Interlocal shall constitute and
perform all functions and duties of a Fire Department of the city.
(Ord. 1017, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 10-15-24)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
Section
   
32.01   Library Board of Advisors
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment and Board of Appeals
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Civil Service Commission
   
32.06   City Personnel Board
   
32.07   Park and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
32.08   Community Development Agency
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see §
33.40
   Charges against officials, see §
33.02
   Citizens Advisory Review Committee - Economic Development, §
117.15
   Compensation, see §§
33.55 through
33.57
   Oath of office, see §
33.41
   Property, see §
33.01
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD OF ADVISORS.
   (A)   Creation of Board. There is hereby created a Library Board of Advisors
consisting of five voting members and the Librarian, provided, however, that
the Librarian shall attend and serve as Chair of all meetings of the Board,
though he or she shall not vote or be counted for quorum purposes. The
Librarian further shall act as a liaison between the Board and City Council.
Voting Board members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the City Council
upon recommendation of the Mayor. Board members shall be appointed for a term
of two years each, provided that the Board shall be constituted so that on
December 31 of each odd-numbered year, the appointments of two voting members
shall expire and so that on December 31 of each even-numbered year,
appointments of the remaining three voting members shall expire. A member may
be appointed to the Board for successive terms. Voting members of the Library
Board of Advisors shall serve without pay or compensation for any services
rendered as a member of the Board.
   (B)   Duties of Board. The Library Board of Advisors shall advise and make
recommendations in respect to the operations and development of the City
Library. The Board shall encourage and publicize the use of the City Library.
The Board may recommend to the Mayor and Council such rules and regulations as
are necessary for the preservation and efficient management of the Library. The
Board may recommend to the Mayor and Council such penalties and fees as are
deemed appropriate for the use or abuse of library equipment, books and
facilities. The Board shall recommend to the Mayor and Council such measures as
it deems necessary and proper for the betterment of the City Library. The Board
shall submit an annual report to the Mayor and Council for the period October 1
to September 30, each year, or as otherwise required by Neb. RS 51-213, showing
monies received and expended by the city for Library purposes during said
period, a statement of the condition of the Library and its needs and such
other recommendations and information as may seem pertinent.
   (C)   Committee duties of Librarian. The City Librarian shall:
      (1)   Advise and recommend to the Board on matters related to its duties
for the Board's consideration and recommendation to the City Council.
      (2)   Advise and recommend to the Board on other policy matters as may be
appropriate from time to time.
      (3)   Make recommendations and solicit input from the Board on such
recreational matters that necessitate subsequent City Council approval or
disapproval.
      (4)   Serve as a nonvoting member of the Board, prepare all agenda and
calls of the Board meetings.
   (D)   Organization; City Administrator an ex officio member. Immediately
after its appointment and each year thereafter, the Board shall meet and
organize by electing from its number a president, secretary, and such other
officers as may be necessary. The Board shall have the authority to establish
its own rules of procedure. A majority of the Board members in office at any
particular time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
Vacancies on the Board shall not be considered for purposes of determining
quorum requirements. The City Administrator shall serve as an ex officio member
of the Board and may attend its meetings. He or she shall serve as a
representative of the Mayor and City Council and may participate in discussions
but shall not vote or be counted for quorum purposes. Any member of the Board
may be removed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council upon
recommendation of the Mayor.
(‘79 Code, § 2-201) (Am. Ord. 328, passed 11-3-82; Am. Ord. 409, passed 3-4-86;
Am. Ord. 449, passed 8-4-87)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create; powers and duties, see Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-212
Cross reference:
   Library, see §§
90.70 et seq.
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the city
exercises extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, one regular member
of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by
the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in the area
subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, and no such
resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on
the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. For
purposes of this section, a sufficient number of residents shall mean 1,000
residents. All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
three regular members of the first Commission shall serve for terms of one
year, three for terms of two years and three for terms of three years. All
regular members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any
member may, after a public hearing before the City Council, be removed by the
Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other
good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Mayor.
   (B)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold any
municipal office except:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A member of the City Council;
      (3)   A member of any community redevelopment authority created under
Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
      (4)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (C)   All members of the Commission may be required, in the discretion of
the City Council, to give bond in a sum set by resolution of the Council and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Commission shall
elect its Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill such
other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the
Secretary shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection. No
member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson
and Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep
the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with
the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours. The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to
time out of the General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of
gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City
Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in
excess of such amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the
number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting in each calendar quarter, except as provided in this section.
The City Council may require the Commission to meet more frequently, and the
Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal
with business pending before the Commission. If no business is pending before
the commission, the Chairperson may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more
than three quarterly meetings may be cancelled per calendar year. Special
meetings may also be held upon the call of any three members of the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which shall be a public record. The Commission shall make and
adopt plans for the physical development of the city, including any areas
outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to
the planning of the city, and shall carry out the other duties and exercise the
powers specified in Neb. RS 19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be
subject to the review and supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The
Commission shall make its recommendations to the City Council so that they are
received by the City Council within 90 days after the Commission begins
consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan,
capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation
of territory or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to
time, designate.
   (D)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the other elected
members of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the City
Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting
and participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(‘79 Code, § 2-202) (Am. Ord. 1347, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1442, passed 2-1-
22)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
Cross reference:
   Planning, see
Chapter 151
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment which shall consist of five regular members plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member of the
Board shall serve a term of three years, unless reappointed, and shall be
removable only for cause by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council,
upon written charges and after a public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only of
the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the Planning
Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by such
member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the
Board of Adjustment. After the effective date of this section, the first
vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment
of a person who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city
at such time as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at
all times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside
the corporate boundaries of the city but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the Mayor and City Council, to give a bond in a
sum set by resolution of the Mayor and City Council and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties. The Board shall conduct an organizational
meeting in January of each year and elect from its membership a Chairperson and
a Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and
accurate minutes of all Board members, showing the vote of each member upon
each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be public
record. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and shall be held
at such times as the Chairperson may, in his or her discretion, call a meeting,
and at such other times as the Board may determine. Special meetings may also
be held upon the call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board
shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of any ordinance adopted
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by a city official based
on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation or any regulation
relating to the location or soundness of structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of the zoning
regulations, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   (1)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (E)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of
the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any such city official or to decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variance in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (F)   The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing
such other duties as the Mayor and City Council may designate. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board
of Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity
of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
   (G)   The Board shall also act as the Board of Appeals for purposes of
building regulations contained in
Chapter 150 of this Code in order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions, or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of said building regulations. If at any time
there is any conflict, inconsistency or ambiguity between or among the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above and
Chapter 150, or any code thereunder, as adopted or amended from time to time,
the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall govern.
(‘79 Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 201, passed - -; Am. Ord. 308, passed 6-15-82; Am.
Ord. 673, passed 6-17-97; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 4-7-09)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties, see Neb. RS 16-907 through 16-910
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Mayor, with the consent of a majority of the Council, shall appoint the
Board of Health. The Board of Health shall consist of five members who are
residents of the city. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who
shall serve as Chairman; the Police Chief, who shall serve as Secretary and
quarantine officer; a physician who resides in the city shall serve as the
medical advisor; the President of the City Council; and one other member who
may be the Fire Chief. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health shall be
funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman or any two members
of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and regulations
which shall have the full force and effect of law and to safeguard the health
of the residents of the city. Included in the duties of the Board shall be to
enforce the said rules and regulations and to provide fines and punishments for
any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of
nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the state of Nebraska and
ordinances of the city relating to matters of sanitation which affect the
health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such
premises and businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the
Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other
duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No member of the
Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(‘79 Code, § 2-204) (Am. Ord. 334, passed 12-21-83; Am. Ord. 410, passed 3-4-
86; Am. Ord. 869, passed 10-1-02)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-238
Cross reference:
   Health and sanitation, see
Chapter 92
§ 32.05 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   See
Chapter 37 of this code for provisions relating to the Civil Service
Commission.
(‘79 Code, § 2-205) (Am. Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85)
§ 32.06 CITY PERSONNEL BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a City Personnel Board which shall
be composed of three persons to be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council. The members shall be residents of the city and shall serve
without compensation. They shall hold no elective office in the city, nor be a
candidate for such office. No member of the Personnel Board shall hold a
compensated position of employment with the city. Members of the Civil Service
Commission are eligible for appointment to the Personnel Board and any member
or members so appointed shall serve in a separate and distinct capacity while
so acting on the Personnel Board and, while so acting, shall be governed by
this section and the personnel rules and regulations of the city and not by
civil service laws, rules and regulations.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall serve for a term of six years; provided,
that in the appointment of the first Board, the Mayor shall appoint one member
for a term of two years; one for a term of four years; and one for a term of
six years. Such original terms of office shall begin on the first day of June,
1975. At the regular City Council meeting immediately preceding the expiration
of each Board member's term of office, the Mayor shall appoint a Board member
for six years to succeed the Board member whose term is about to expire. The
Board member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself in office.
   (C)   Whenever any appointed Board member is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of the Personnel Board, due to unavailability or recusal, the Mayor
may designate a member of the Civil Service Commission to serve as an alternate
in the place of said appointed member. The alternate member shall serve only
for such time as the appointed Board member is unable to perform the duties of
the Personnel Board and said designation shall terminate as soon as the
appointed Board member is again able to perform the duties of the Personnel
Board.
   (D)   Whenever any vacancy occurs in the Personnel Board by reason of
disqualification, resignation or death of a member thereof or by operation of
law, the Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint a person meeting
all of the qualifications set forth herein. Vacancies occurring during a term
shall be filled for the balance of the term.
   (E)   The Personnel Board hereby created shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor, Council and City Administrator on matters of
personnel policy and problems of personnel administration.
      (2)   Represent the public interest in the improvement of personnel
administration in the city service. To this end the members of the Board shall
at all times endeavor to insure the application of merit principles and public
employment in the city.
      (3)   Make any inquiries which it may consider desirable concerning
personnel administration in the city service and make recommendations to the
Mayor, City Council or City Administrator with respect thereto.
      (4)   Insure fair and full enforcement of personnel rules and policy
procedures adopted by resolution by the City Council, and to this end shall
review such of the decisions of the City Administrator as shall be appealed in
cases of suspension, demotion and dismissal, and such other matters as shall by
said personnel rules be appealable to the Personnel Board. In such cases, the
decision of the Personnel Board shall be deemed to be a final decision for the
purpose of judicial review.
   (F)   The Personnel Board shall appoint some person as Secretary and
examiner. Said Secretary and examiner shall serve without compensation. The
City Administrator of the city shall advise the Personnel Board as to such
matters into which the Board shall inquire or shall review, and shall make
available to the Board such information as it shall request. The city shall
provide legal service for the Board through the City Attorney.
(‘79 Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 194, passed - -; Am. Ord. 852, passed 12-4-01)
§ 32.07 PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation of Committee. There is hereby created a Park and Recreation
Advisory Committee consisting of five voting members and the Recreation
Director who shall serve as Chairman of the Committee but shall not have a
vote, nor be counted for quorum purposes. The voting members of the Committee
shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to approval of the City Council for a
term of two years each, provided that the Committee shall be constituted so
that on December 31 of each odd- numbered year the appointments of two voting
members shall expire and so that on December 31 of each even-numbered year
appointments of the three other voting members shall expire. The Recreation
Director shall serve on the Committee as the nonvoting member during his/her
term of employment in that capacity. A member may be appointed to the Committee
for successive terms. Members of the Park and Recreation Advisory Committee
shall serve without pay, but shall be reimbursed for any expenses approved by
the Council and incurred in the performance of their assigned duties.
   (B)   Duties of Committee. The Committee's duties shall be to:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor, Council and City Administrator on matters
concerning parks and recreation.
      (2)   Make recommendations on the locations of sites for parks and
recreational areas to the Planning Commission, Mayor and City Council.
      (3)   Submit to the Mayor and Council annually a schedule of improvements
to be undertaken in any of the five succeeding years for the location,
extension and development of parks and recreational areas, which schedule shall
be given due consideration in the formulation of the city's park and
recreational improvements program and budget.
      (4)   Advise the Council on the sale, exchange, lease, transfer or
acceptance of any real estate or buildings owned or to be acquired for parks
and recreational purposes.
      (5)   Submit to the Mayor and Council annually a report on the status of
the park and recreational facilities.
      (6)   Study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal and/or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along
streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the
City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the
official Comprehensive City Tree Plan for the city of La Vista, Nebraska. The
Committee, when requested by the City Administrator, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
      (7)   Perform such other related duties that may be assigned to the
Committee by the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Committee duties of Recreation Director. The Recreation Director
shall:
      (1)   Advise and recommend to the Committee on matters related to its
duties for the Committee's consideration and recommendation to the City
Council.
      (2)   Advise and recommend to the Committee on other policy matters as
may be appropriate from time to time.
      (3)   Make recommendations and solicit input from the Committee on such
recreational matters that necessitate subsequent City Council approval or
disapproval.
      (4)   Serve as a nonvoting member of the Committee, prepare all agenda
and calls of Committee meetings.
   (D)   Organization; City Administrator an ex officio member; removal.
Immediately after their appointment, and each year thereafter, the Park and
Recreation Advisory Committee shall meet and organize by electing from their
number a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, and a Secretary, and such other officers as
they may deem necessary, provided, however, that the Recreation Director shall
be elected each year as the Chairman. The Chairman shall conduct meetings of
the Committee and act as liaison between the Committee and the City Council. In
all public meetings, Robert's Rules of Order is the authority by which all
procedural disputes shall be decided. A majority of the voting members serving
on the Committee shall constitute a quorum. Vacancies on the Committee shall
not be considered for the purpose of determining quorum requirements. The City
Administrator shall serve as an ex officio member of the Committee and may
attend its meetings. He or she shall serve as a representative of the Mayor and
Council and may participate in discussions, but shall not vote or be counted
toward a quorum. Members of the Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor and Council, and any member may be removed at any time from membership on
the Committee by the Mayor with approval of the City Council.
   (E)   Removal of members of Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve
at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council, and any member may be removed at any
time from membership on the Committee by majority vote of the Mayor and
Council. A Committee member's removal shall automatically vacate his or her
appointment to the Committee. Vacancies in the membership of the Committee
shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments are made.
(‘79 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 170, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed - -; Am. Ord.
221, passed - -; Am. Ord. 408, passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. 441, passed 6-2-87; Am.
Ord. 448, passed 8-4-87)
Cross reference:
   Recreation Director, see §
31.28 
   Leisure and recreation, see
Chapter 90
§ 32.08 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Creation of Agency. A Community Development Agency is hereby created
pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01 and 18-2103. The Agency shall consist of, and be
governed by, the Mayor and City Council of the City of La Vista.
   (B)   Powers of Agency. The Community Development Agency shall function in
the manner prescribed herein or otherwise by ordinance and have all powers and
authority granted by applicable law, including, but not limited to, the power
and authority:
      (1)   Granted to an authority or community redevelopment authority in
Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2144;
      (2)   To do all community development activities;
      (3)   To cooperate with the federal government in all matters relating to
community development program activities;
      (4)   To certify an annual tax levy and issue bonds, notes or other
financing; and
      (5)   To exercise all other powers and authorities granted under Nebraska
Statutes, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-2145 through 18-2154.
   (C)   Agency actions. Actions of the Mayor and Council on behalf of the
Agency shall be taken and approved in accordance with the requirements
applicable to actions of the Mayor and City Council as the governing body of
the city. Provided, however, any action of the Agency may be taken or approved
at any regular, special or emergency meeting of the City Council of the City of
La Vista conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Open Meetings Act
(Ord. 1167, passed 2-7-12)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Property
   
33.02   Charges against officials
Meetings
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Meetings to be public; emergency declaration; virtual conferencing
   
33.17   Closed sessions
   
33.18   Emergency meetings
   
33.19   Minutes
   
33.20   Votes
   
33.21   Notice to news media
   
33.22   Public participation
   
33.23   Organizational meeting
   
33.24   Parliamentary procedure
   
33.25   Regular meetings; quorum
   
33.26   Special meetings
Bond and Oaths
   
33.40   Bonds; form
   
33.41   Oath of office; city official
Compensation
   
33.55   City officers and employees
   
33.56   Change in salary
   
33.57   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Public Records
   
33.70   Records requests
   
33.71   Policy
   
33.72   Nondisclosure generally
   
33.73   Nondisclosure of trade secrets, academic, scientific, proprietary,
commercial and other information
   
33.74   Segregable portions of record
   
33.75   Explanation
   
33.76   Nonpublic records defined
   
33.77   Lawful custodian
   
33.78   No private right of action
   
33.79   References
Cross-reference:
   Disposal of property, see §
34.29
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PROPERTY.
   Every officer and employee of the city or of any of its boards or
departments shall promptly and fully account for and deliver to his or her
successor or as otherwise directed by the Mayor and Council, all money,
equipment and other property of the city which he or she has in his or her
possession or has received from the city during his or her term of office or
employment.
(‘79 Code, § 1-403)
§ 33.02 CHARGES AGAINST OFFICIALS.
   Any person may make a charge of misconduct in office against any city
official, which charge shall be in writing and under oath and shall specify the
nature of the misconduct claimed and which charge shall be filed with the City
Clerk. Such charge shall be fully read at the next regular meeting of the City
Council or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and if so ordered by
the Council, a copy of such charge, certified by the City Clerk, shall be
served upon the officer charged, together with a notice that he or she shall
show cause, at a meeting of the Council why he or she should not be removed
from office.
(‘79 Code, § 1-405)
MEETINGS
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning or
otherwise provided by the Open Meeting Act, as amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council of the city,
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law, and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies
unless a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless
such subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(1)) (‘79 Code, § 1-602)
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(2)) (‘79 Code, § 1-601)
   VIRTUAL CONFERENCING. Conducting or participating in a meeting
electronically or telephonically with interaction among the participants
subject to subsection 84-1412(2) of the Open Meetings Act.
(Am. Ord. 353, passed 12-6-83; Am. Ord. 564, passed 5-4-93; Am. Ord. 1467,
passed 12-6-22)
§ 33.16 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC; EMERGENCY DECLARATION; VIRTUAL CONFERENCING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) below, all public meetings, as
defined by law, shall be held in a city public building which shall be open to
attendance by the public. All meetings shall be held in the public building in
which the public body usually holds such meetings unless the publicized notice
required by this section designates some other public building or other
specified place.
   (B)   The advance publicized notice of all public convened meetings shall be
simultaneously transmitted to all members of the public body and to the public.
Such notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website. In
addition to the method of the notice required by the preceding sentence, such
notice may also be provided by any other appropriate method designated by the
public body or City Council. The methods and dates of such notice shall be
recorded in public body minutes. The notice shall contain the time and specific
place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known
at the time of the notice or a statement that such an agenda that is kept
continually current shall be readily available for public inspection at the
office of the City Clerk during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. The agenda of any City Council meeting shall be
made available and placed on the city’s public website at least 24 hours before
the meeting, and shall remain available on such website for at least six
months. Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting,
or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the public body
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have
the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at
such public meetings.
   (C)   Meeting minutes shall include a statement of how the availability of
an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific
place of the meetings, the names of each member of the public body present or
absent at each convened meeting, and the substance of all matters discussed.
The minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record. The minutes shall
be available for inspection by the public within ten working days or prior to
the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier, upon request at any
reasonable time at the office of the City Clerk. Minutes of any City Council
meeting shall be made available and placed on the city's public website at such
time as the minutes are available for public inspection and remain available on
such website for at least six months.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in §
33.20, any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be taken only by roll call vote of the public body in open session. The
record shall show how each member voted or that the member was absent and did
not vote.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, if an
emergency is declared by the Governor under the Emergency Management Act, a
public body, the territorial jurisdiction of which is included in whole or in
part in the emergency declaration, may hold a meeting by virtual conferencing,
provided applicable requirements of subsection 84-1411(7) of the Open Meetings
Act are satisfied. In addition, any public body may hold a meeting by virtual
conferencing solely for purposes of discussion in accordance with subsection
84-1411(8) of the Open Meetings Act.
(‘79 Code, § 1-603) (Am. Ord. 997, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 1443, passed 2-1-
22; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Meeting requirements, see Neb. RS 84-1408 through 84-1413
§ 33.17 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions may be held
for but shall not be limited to such reasons as:
      (1)   (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question, of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action shall mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise
to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under subdivision (A)(1)(a).
   (C)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself
a subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this subchapter or the Open Meetings Act. No closed session,
informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, or electronic communication
shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the provisions of this
subchapter or the Act.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance
meetings or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members
of a public body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally
convened if there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over
which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (‘79 Code, § 1-604) (Am. Ord. 353, passed 12-6-83; Am. Ord.
563, passed 5-4-93; Am. Ord. 626, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 997, passed 1-20-06;
Am. Ord. 1027, passed 5-1-07)
§ 33.18 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes, and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.21 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (‘79 Code, § 1-605) (Am. Ord. 353, passed 12-6-83)
§ 33.19 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings, showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
(‘79 Code, § 1-606) (Am. Ord. 1482, passed 5-16-23)
Statutory reference:
   Conduct of meetings, see Neb. RS 84-1412 and 84-1413
§ 33.20 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
city utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (‘79 Code, § 1-607)
§ 33.21 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (‘79 Code, § 1-608) (Am. Ord. 1028, passed 5-1-07)
§ 33.22 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the Open Meetings Act, the public shall have the right to
attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and all or any part
of a meeting of a public body, except for closed meetings called pursuant to §
33.17, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings. No
public body shall require members of the public to identify themselves as a
condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body require that the
name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior to such meeting
in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may require any member of
the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or herself,
including an address and the name of any organization represented by such
person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the security of the
individual.
   (C)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed
in violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place located in this state.
   (D)   Each public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for
examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in
paper or electronic form.
   Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public body shall be informed
about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) (‘79 Code, § 1-609) (Am. Ord. 353, passed 12-6-83; Am. Ord.
398, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 457, passed 1-19-88; Am. Ord. 997, passed 6-20-
06; Am. Ord. 1090, passed 4-7-09; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 12-6-22)
§ 33.23 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a city
election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed to
organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the new
municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then proceed
to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers of the
city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that such
oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining that all
members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its own body
who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall then
nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall then
proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each
and every member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each
officer elected to any office, to qualify within the time required by
applicable law following his or her election. All appointive officers likewise
shall qualify within the time following their appointment as required by
applicable law. Qualification for each officer who is not required to give bond
shall consist of his or her subscribing and taking an oath in form specified in
Neb. RS 11-101, said oath to be filed in the office of the City Clerk. Each
officer who is required to give a bond shall file the required bond in the
office of the City Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful
discharge of the duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon;
or satisfy an alternative method of compliance described in §
33.40(B).
(‘79 Code, § 1-611) (Am. Ord. 1078, passed 10-21-08)
§ 33.24 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer and while
speaking shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two or more
persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All
resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon if
requested by the City Clerk or any member of the City Council. Every member of
the City Council who is present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or
her vote unless excused by a majority of the City Council present. No motion
shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by
the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is
entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the City Council making the
motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “Yeas” and
“Nays” shall be taken and entered in the minutes upon the request of any member
of the City Council. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion
or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor
thereof with the consent of the member of the City Council seconding the said
resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table and to adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided
without debate. Any of the rules of the City Council for meetings may be
suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which
provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of Order is the
authority by which the City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that
may arise.
(‘79 Code, § 1-612)
§ 33.25 REGULAR MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held at the meeting place of
the city. Regular meetings shall be held on the first and third Tuesdays of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members.
Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and
compelled to attend.
   (C)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor
and the President of the Council, the City Council members shall elect a
President pro tempore.
   (D)   Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
(Neb. RS 16-401) (‘79 Code, § 1-613) (Ord. 399, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 423,
passed 10-7-86)
§ 33.26 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by four members of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the City Clerk.
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall notify
the Council members of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose.
Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a Council member known to be
out of the state or physically unable to be present.
   (C)   All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with
procedures set forth in this subchapter.
(‘79 Code, § 1-614) (Ord. 399, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 423, passed 10-7-86)
Statutory reference:
   Council; meetings, regular and special; quorum, see Neb. RS 16-401
BOND AND OATHS
§ 33.40 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, official bonds of the city shall be in
form joint and several and shall be made payable to the city in such penalty as
the City Council may set by resolution; provided however, that, absent
specification by resolution, the required penalty shall be $1,000. Provided
further, however, that the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the
legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for each
particular official. All official bonds of the city officials shall be executed
by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties
who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as principal and by
a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company, provided that no city
official, while still in his of her official term of office, shall be accepted
as surety on any other official's bond, contractor's bond, license bond or
appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized
to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be eligible for suretyship
on the bond of an official of the city. All said bonds shall obligate the
principal and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required by law
of such principal and shall inure to the benefit of the city and any persons
who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds, in addition to
incorporating any other requirements of applicable law. Notwithstanding
anything in this code to the contrary, each bond shall be required to be filed
no earlier than the date that the bond is required to be filed under applicable
Nebraska statute, as enacted or amended from time to time. Bonds of City
Council members shall be approved by the Mayor. Bonds of all other city
officials shall be approved by the City Council. The approval of each official
bond shall be endorsed upon such bond by the officer approving the same. The
Mayor shall be authorized to endorse approval of bonds approved by the City
Council, and the Mayor shall be deemed to be and constitute the officer
approving said bonds for purposes of said endorsement. The premium on any
official bond required to be given shall be paid out of the general fund or
other proper city fund. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein,
shall be filed with the City Clerk for his of her official records, and it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so
filed upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any appointed
officer of the city, in the opinion of the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, become insufficient, the Mayor, with approval of the City Council, may
fix a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new bond or
additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse or neglect to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction
of the Mayor, then, with the approval of the City Council, the office shall, by
such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant, and another officer shall be
appointed to fill said office in accordance with applicable law. Any official
who is re-elected or re-appointed to office shall be required to file a new
bond after each election or appointment.
   (B)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by city
officers or officials, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by city officers or officials, or
a single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers and
officials, including officers and officials required by law to furnish an
individual bond or undertaking, may be furnished. The city shall pay the
premium for the bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage
shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law, by the
Council or otherwise by division (A) above, and with such terms and conditions
as may be required.
(‘79 Code, § 1-401) (Am. Ord. 943, passed 12-7-04; Am. Ord. 1079, passed 10-21-
08)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds generally and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118
   Bond of council members, see Neb. RS 16-304
   Bond of treasurer, see Neb. RS 16-318
§ 33.41 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIAL.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I,                                              , do solemnly swear that I
will support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the
State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear
true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and
without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of,
                          , according to law and to the best of my ability. And
I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (‘79 Code, § 1-402)
COMPENSATION
§ 33.55 CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The compensation of any elective official of the city shall not be increased
or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices. No elected official may be
rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and desires to be rehired
during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be rehired after the term of
office during which he or she resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall
be set by ordinance of the City Council and will be available for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation regulated, see Neb. RS 16-305
   Compensation to be established by ordinance, see Neb. RS 16-310
   Elective officers; compensation; change during term prohibited; exception,
see Neb. RS 16-326
Cross-reference:
   Compensation changes for officers of bodies with terms ending at various
times, see §
33.56
§ 33.56 CHANGE IN SALARY.
   The emoluments of any elected officer shall not be increased or diminished
during the term of office for which he or she was elected, except that when
there are officers who are elected to the Council or other body having more
than one member and terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times, the compensation of all members of that body may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person
who shall have resigned or vacated any elective office shall be again eligible
to hold the office during the term he or she was elected to if after
resignation the emoluments have been increased.
(Neb. RS 16-326) (‘79 Code, § 1-1002)
§ 33.57 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   All elected or appointed officials, and employees, of the city in the
discharge of their offices or duties from the city shall comply with applicable
requirements of the state statutes, as adopted or amended from time to time;
including, without limitation, provisions of the Nebraska Political
Accountability and Disclosure Act governing actual or potential conflicts of
interest.
(‘79 Code, § 1-404) (Am. Ord. 352, passed 11-15-83; Am. Ord. 379, passed 2-5-
85; Am. Ord. 421, passed 10-7-86; Am. Ord. 1029, passed 5-1-07; Am. Ord. 1443,
passed 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Private gain by public officers, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
   Holding dual elective offices, see Neb. RS 32-604
   Penalty for violation of Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.03, see Neb. RS
49-14,103.04
   Similar state provisions, Neb. RS 49-1401 et seq.
   Utility directors and employees permitted to serve in elected office, see
Neb. RS 70-624.04
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 33.70 RECORDS REQUESTS.
   The city shall process property completed and submitted requests to examine
record(s), and/or obtain copies or make memoranda, copies or abstracts thereof,
in accordance with Nebraska statutes, this subchaper and other applicable law.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.71 POLICY.
   The city hereby establishes a policy that nonpublic records, and records
described in §
33.72 below, shall not constitute public records and they shall be withheld and
not disclosed.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.72 NONDISCLOSURE GENERALLY.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 84-712.05 and other applicable Nebraska statutes, the
following records, unless publicly disclosed in an open court, open
administrative proceeding, or open meeting, or disclosed by the city pursuant
to its duties, shall not constitute public records and shall be withheld and
not disclosed to the public:
   (A)   Medical records, other than records of births and deaths and except as
provided in §
33.72(D) below, in any form concerning any person, and also records of
elections filed under Neb. RS 44-2821;
   (B)   Subject to §
33.73(A) below, trade secrets, academic and scientific research work which is
in process and unpublished, and other proprietary or commercial information
which if released would give advantage to business competitors and serve no
public purpose;
   (C)   Records which represent the work product of an attorney and the public
body involved which are related to preparation for litigation, labor
negotiations, or claims made by or against the public body or which are
confidential communications as defined in Neb. RS 27-503;
   (D)   Records developed or received by law enforcement agencies and other
public bodies charged with duties of investigation or examination of persons,
institutions, or businesses, when the records constitute a part of the
examination, investigation, intelligence information, citizen complaints or
inquiries, informant identification, or strategic or tactical information used
in law enforcement training, except that this subsection shall not apply to
records so developed or received relating to the presence of and amount or
concentration of alcohol or drugs in any body fluid of any person;
   (E)   Appraisals or appraisal information and negotiation records concerning
the purchase or sale, by a public body, of any interest in real or personal
property, prior to completion of the purchase or sale;
   (F)   Personal information in records regarding personnel of public bodies
other than salaries and routine directory information;
   (G)   Information solely pertaining to protection of the security of public
property and persons on or within public property, such as specific, unique
vulnerability assessments or specific, unique response plans, either of which
is intended to prevent or mitigate criminal acts the public disclosure of which
would create a substantial likelihood of endangering public safety or property;
computer or communications network schema, passwords, and user identification
names; guard schedules; or lock combinations;
   (H)   The security standards, procedures, policies, plans, specifications,
diagrams, access lists, and other security-related records of the Lottery
Division of the Nebraska Department of Revenue and those persons or entities
with which the Division has entered into contractual relationships. Nothing in
this subdivision shall allow the Division to withhold from the public any
information relating to amounts paid persons or entities with which the
Division has entered into contractual relationships, amounts of prizes paid,
the name of the prize winner, and the city, village or county where the prize
winner resides;
   (I)   With respect to public utilities and except as provided in Neb. RS 43-
512.06 and 70-101, personally identified private citizen account payment
information, credit information on others supplied in confidence, and customer
lists;
   (J)   Records or portions of records kept by a publicly funded library
which, when examined with or without other records, reveal the identity of any
library patron using the library's materials or services;
   (K)   Records or portions of records kept by public bodies which would
reveal the location, character, or ownership of any known archaeological,
historical, or paleontological site in Nebraska when necessary to protect the
site from a reasonably held fear of theft, vandalism, or trespass. This section
shall not apply to the release of information for the purpose of scholarly
research, examination by other public bodies for the protection of the resource
or by recognized tribes, the Unmarked Human Burial Sites and Skeletal Remains
Protection Act, or the federal Native American Graves Protection and
Repatriation Act;
   (L)   Records or portions of records kept by public bodies which maintain
collections of archaeological, historical, or paleontological significance
which reveal the names and addresses of donors of such articles of
archaeological, historical or paleontological significance unless the donor
approves disclosure, except as the records or portions thereof may be needed to
carry out the purposes of the Unmarked Human Burial Sites and Skeletal Remains
Protection Act or the federal Native American Graves Protection and
Repatriation Act;
   (M)   Job application materials submitted by applicants, other than
finalists, who have applied for employment by any public body as defined in
Neb. RS 84-1409. For purposes of this subdivision, job application materials
means employment applications, resumes, reference letters, and school
transcripts, and finalist means any applicant who is offered and who accepts an
interview by a public body or its agents, representatives, or consultants for
any public employment position;
   (N)   Social security numbers, credit card, charge card, or debit card
numbers and expiration dates; and financial account numbers supplied to state
and local governments by citizens;
   (O)   Nonpublic records; and
   (P)   All other records and parts thereof that are from time to time
permitted or required to be withheld by the city under any applicable law, as
enacted or amended from time to time.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.73 NONDISCLOSURE OF TRADE SECRETS, ACADEMIC, SCIENTIFIC PROPRIETARY,
COMMERCIAL AND OTHER INFORMATION.
   (A)   Following are the types of records that shall be withheld pursuant to
§
33.72(B) above:
      (1)   Trade secrets as that term is defined from time to time by state or
federal courts of Nebraska applying Nebraska law, the Nebraska Trade Secrets
Act or other applicable law;
      (2)   Academic and scientific research work which is in process and
unpublished; and
      (3)   Other proprietary or commercial information which if released would
give advantage to business competitors and serve no public purpose. To be
withheld under this subsection:
         (a)   The information must be:
            1.   Proprietary or commercial information;
            2.   Customarily regarded as confidential in the industry; and
            3.   If disclosed, the information may provide an identifiable
commercial or business advantage to one or more specified business competitors;
and
         (b)   There is no public interest in disclosure, or the interests in
nondisclosure outweigh any public interest in disclosure.
   (B)   In addition to, and not in limitation of, any other provision of this
subchapter, business information received by the city in the course of
administration of its economic development program shall, to the maximum extent
permitted by law, be and remain confidential pursuant to §
33.72(B), §
33.73(A), Neb. RS 84-712.05, binding agreement of the city with a qualifying
business participating in the economic development program requiring the city
to maintain the confidentiality of business information, §
33.73(B)(1) below, and/or any other provision of applicable law now or
hereafter enacted or amended, and shall not be disclosed.
      (1)   Members of the Citizens Advisory Review Committee, in their
capacity as members and consistent with their responsibilities as members, may
from time to time be permitted access to business information received by the
city in the course of its administration of the municipal economic development
program, and members of the Committee shall maintain the confidentiality of and
not disclose such information. Unauthorized disclosure of any business
information which is confidential under Neb. RS 84-712.05 shall be a Class III
misdemeanor.
      (2)   BUSINESS INFORMATION means all information of or related to a
business, its owners and/or affiliates that is identified by the person
providing the information as confidential, including, but not limited to,
information related to operations, accounts, projects, performance, marketing,
planning, financial statements, results and budgeting, but does not include:
         (a)   Information which is or becomes generally available to the
public;
         (b)   Information rightfully received by the city from a third party
and with respect to which there is no obligation of confidentiality of the
city;
         (c)   Information independently developed by the city or any third
party and with respect to which there is no obligation of confidentiality of
the city; and
         (d)   Information disclosed pursuant to a court order or other
operation of law.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.74 SEGREGABLE PORTIONS OF RECORD.
   Any reasonably segregable public portion of a record shall be provided to
the public as a public record upon request after deletion of the portions which
may be withheld.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.75 EXPLANATION.
   Any person denied any rights granted by Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.03
shall be provided the written information described in Neb. RS 84-712.04 by the
City Administrator or his or her designee on behalf of the Mayor and City
Council.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.76 NONPUBLIC RECORDS DEFINED.
   NONPUBLIC RECORDS means all records that:
   (A)   Have not become generally available to the public, have not been
publicly disclosed in an open court, open administrative proceeding, or open
meeting, or disclosed by the city pursuant to its duties; and
   (B)   Are not of and do not belong to the city, as determined from the
relevant facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, any record
acquired or developed by any person, other than by, for or at the request or
direction of the city, and:
      (1)   Made available for inspection or review of the city, but originals
or copies of which are not delivered to the city; or
      (2)   Originals or copies of which are delivered to the city, but subject
to an enforceable:
         (a)   Condition that the city return all originals and copies upon
completing its inspection or review; and/or
         (b)   Confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreement with the city.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.77 LAWFUL CUSTODIAN.
   Unless other specified by applicable law, the lawful custodian of records
for purposes of this subchapter shall be the City Administrator or his or her
designee, and he or she shall make all findings and determinations under this
subchapter in his or her sole and absolute discretion unless otherwise directed
by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.78 NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.
   This subchapter sets forth the policy and laws of the city with respect to
requests for certain types of records. Nothing in or pursuant to this
subchapter shall create, or be the basis or evidence of, any right or cause of
action of or in any person or entity against, or liability of, the city or any
city official, employee, agent or representative in any manner whatsoever
arising out of or resulting from any negligence, act or omission of the city or
any city official, employee, agent or representative under any such section or
with respect to the withholding or disclosure of any record, document or
information.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
§ 33.79 REFERENCES.
   References to statutes and other applicable law in this subchapter shall
mean the referenced statutes or other applicable law, as enacted, amended,
superseded or supplemented from time to time.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-7-04)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Fire Department
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief and assistants, duties
   
34.03   Records
   
34.04   Fires
   
34.05   Distant fires
   
34.06   Fighting distant fires
   
34.07   Preservation of property
   
34.08   Hose tested
   
34.09   Mandatory assistance
   
34.10   Fire investigation
   
34.11   Unlawful handling of equipment
   
34.12   Cooperation authorized
Police Department
   
34.25   Duties
   
34.26   Retirement Committee
   
34.27   Reserve Officer bond
   
34.28   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
34.29   Disposal of property
FIRE DEPARTMENTS
§ 34.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city operates the City Fire Department and Licensed Ambulance
Service through the City Fire Chief and firefighters. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improving the
Fire Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the
city. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund.
The Fund shall be at all times in the possession of the City Treasurer.
   (B)   For the purpose of further defraying the costs of maintaining the Fire
Department and to provide additional fire protection, the city may enter into
an agreement with the Rural Fire District for mutual aid and protection,
provided that any such agreement shall be placed on file at the office of the
City Clerk for inspection at any reasonable time. The Fund shall be at all
times in the possession of the City Treasurer.
(‘79 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 34.02 FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANTS, DUTIES.
   (A)   Prior to appointment of the Fire Chief by the Mayor and City Council,
the City Administrator shall make a recommendation for appointment based upon
an eligibility list established by the Civil Service Commission of the city.
The Fire Chief shall make the following appointments for the specified terms,
subject to removal by the Fire Chief at any time with or without cause. The
Fire Chief shall appoint the Assistant Chief(s) and District Chief(s) to
office. The Assistant Chief(s) and District Chief(s) will serve four-year terms
with a maximum of two consecutive terms. The Fire Chief shall appoint the Fire
Training Officer and Medical Training Officer to office. The Fire Training
Officer and Medical Training Officer will serve two-year terms with a maximum
of two consecutive terms. The Fire Chief shall appoint the Fire Captains and
Rescue Captain. The Fire Captains will serve one-year terms with a maximum of
three consecutive terms. The Rescue Captain will serve a one-year term with a
maximum of four consecutive terms. The Fire Chief shall appoint the Public
Information Officer and Department Secretary/Parliamentarian. The Public
Information Officer will serve a one-year term with a maximum of three
consecutive terms. The Department Secretary/Parliamentarian will serve a one-
year term with no maximum of consecutive terms. The Fire Chief, subject to
approval by the City Administrator, will designate and fill as may be necessary
other positions within the Department. A Fire Lieutenant and Rescue Lieutenant
from each District will be elected by the membership of the Department and will
serve one-year terms with a maximum of three consecutive terms.
   (B)   After an officer reaches the term limit for the office the officer is
currently serving in, he/she shall be eligible for reapplication for that
office, providing he/she meets the qualifications for office, after a period of
two years. Provided, however, if an officer has reached his/her term limit and
the Fire Chief determines that there are no qualified candidates who have
applied to fill the position, the Fire Chief may reappoint the incumbent for
one or more additional terms.
   (C)   Upon the written consent and directive of the City Council, the Fire
Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance of Fire Department
equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall be
the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant Chief(s) or their
designate(s) lawfully acting in his, her or their stead, in all cases of fire,
and/or medical emergency, to take and have control of all members of the Fire
Department and of all proper means for the extinguishment of fires, the
protection of property, the administration of emergency medical assistance and
the preservation of order at and in the vicinity of fire and rescue scenes and
to secure the observance of all ordinances and regulations respecting fires.
After engines and other apparatus have been withdrawn from any fire or rescue
scene, he or she shall have charge of the premises and/or scene until it has
been properly secured or assumed by proper authorities.
(‘79 Code, § 3-202) (Am. Ord. 869, passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord. 941, passed 11-1-
04; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 1110, passed 11-17-09)
§ 34.03 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of such records to the City Clerk during the
last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the cause,
origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct may have
been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he or she shall include
the information of whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in
what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable
time.
(‘79 Code, § 3-203)
§ 34.04 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
(‘79 Code, § 3-204)
§ 34.05 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief or pursuant to any agreement
with a Rural Fire District, such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be used beyond the
corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
(‘79 Code, § 3-205)
§ 34.06 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department, or some person authorized to
act for such Chief, and, in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city
as may be designated by the City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 3-206)
§ 34.07 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the City Fire Department shall have the power during the
time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever
it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from
fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The
said officials may direct the city firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and
the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the power to blow
up or cause to be blown up with powder or otherwise any building or erection
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
(‘79 Code, § 3-207)
§ 34.08 HOSE TESTED.
   All fire hoses shall be pressure tested once each year.
(‘79 Code, § 3-208)
§ 34.09 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the City Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that any person is
able, but refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a
lawful order to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(‘79 Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.10 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the
city in which property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown
origin shall be reported, and such officers shall especially make an
investigation and report as to whether such fire was the result of
carelessness, accident or design. Such investigation shall be begun immediately
following extinguishment of such fire or as soon as it is determined to be safe
to do the same, and the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise
and direct the investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or
necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires occurring within the
city shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week
of the occurrence of the fire furnish him or her with a written statement of
all the facts relating to the cause and origin of the fire and such further
information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506) (‘79 Code, § 3-210)
§ 34.11 UNLAWFUL HANDLING OF EQUIPMENT.
   No person other than the Fire Chief, members of the Fire Department, or the
Fire Chief's designee shall, at any time, handle, misuse, or interfere with any
of the fire apparatus belonging to the city.
(‘79 Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.12 COOPERATION AUTHORIZED.
   Notwithstanding anything in §§
34.01 through
34.11 or any other ordinance, resolution, rule, requirement or authorization of
the city to the contrary, the Mayor and City Council, as permitted from time to
time by applicable state law, shall be authorized to enter any interlocal
cooperation agreements, joint public agency agreements or any other agreements
or understandings and thereby delegate to any fire protection districts, cities
or other public or nonpublic bodies, persons or entities, and retain, any or
all of the rights and obligations described in §§
34.01 through
34.11 above or specified by other authority to be exercised or carried out by
the city, Fire Department, ambulance service, Fire Chief or any other
firefighter, volunteer or person of or for the City.
(Ord. 1199, passed 8-20-13)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.25 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs, interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and enforce
all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places and residences of the city. The Department shall
execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all
persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as
possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall
become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the
same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person
or persons for violation of the same.
(‘79 Code, § 3-301)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see §
31.26
§ 34.26 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Creation of Committee. There is hereby created a Retirement Committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1014 for the purpose of supervising the general
operation of the retirement system adopted for police officers of the city. The
Committee shall consist of six members. Four of the six members shall be
selected by the officers in the police force in the manner they so choose, and
the names of the officers so chosen shall be provided to the City Council by
the Chief of Police or his or her designee. The remaining two members shall be
the City Administrator and the City Clerk. The City Treasurer shall be an ex
officio member of the Committee, and may attend and participate in Committee
meetings, but shall not vote or be counted for quorum purposes. The City
Attorney shall act as legal consultant to the Committee. Each Committee member
shall be appointed for a four-year term, and vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the terms by a person with the same representation as his or her
predecessor. Members of the Retirement Committee shall receive no salary and
shall not be compensated for expenses.
   (B)   Duties. Duties of Committee shall be as stated in Neb. RS 16-1017 as
amended from time to time.
(Neb. RS 16-1017) (‘79 Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 355, passed 12-20-83; Am. Ord. 533,
passed 7-2-91; Am. Ord. 1348, passed 7-2-19)
§ 34.27 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the individual appointed, or a blanket
surety bond arranged and paid for by the City Council and bonding all such
officers of the City Council has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the
provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 11, Article 1 (Neb. RS 11-101 et seq.).
(Neb. RS 81-1444) (‘79 Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 422, passed 10-7-86)
§ 34.28 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every city law enforcement officer shall have the power and authority
to enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
Primary jurisdiction shall mean the geographic area within territorial limits
of the city.
   (B)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have the power
and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any
city or incorporated village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her
office, including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing
the laws or performing the functions within the territorial limits of his or
her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer shall have such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law
enforcement officer in need of assistance shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger, or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested,
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested, or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime;
and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, enters into a contract with any other city or county for law enforcement
services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have
such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating
political subdivisions to the extent provided for in the agreement. Unless
otherwise provided in the agreement, the city shall provide liability insurance
coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for such disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency
when such program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
this state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where
they are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office,
including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws
or performing the functions within the territorial limits of their primary
jurisdiction. The city shall self-insure or contract for insurance against any
liability for personal injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it
or by its personnel as the result of any movement of its personnel outside the
limits of the city pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 29-215 and 81-829.65) (‘79 Code, § 3-304) (Ord. 629, passed 9-5-95;
Am. Ord. 774, passed 4-4-99)
§ 34.29 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property in possession of police. Except as otherwise provided by
applicable state statute as amended from time to time, property (other than
real property) taken from persons pursuant to a lawful exercise of authority,
recovered by the police department through investigation, turned in as found
property, or which for any other reason is in the custody of the Chief of
Police or his or her authorized designee or agent and unclaimed by the owner,
and which is no longer required for evidence or other official purposes, shall
be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   The owner of the property will be contacted or a reasonable attempt
will be made to contact the owner of the property, and the owner will have 30
days after such contact or attempt to claim the property.
      (2)   Anyone finding property not classified as narcotics, contraband, or
explosives and turning said property into the police department shall, if the
property is not claimed by the owner within 30 days as provided in subdivision
(A)(1) above, have ten days thereafter to reclaim the property.
      (3)   Any property not claimed or reclaimed as set forth above, will be
disposed of in the manner described below:
         (a)   Money shall be held for a period of two years and then be paid
into the general fund of the city.
         (b)   Narcotics, contraband, and explosives will be destroyed by the
Chief of Police or his or her authorized designee or agent in accordance with
applicable law.
         (c)   Abandoned motor vehicles shall be disposed of in accordance with
Neb. RS 60-1901 et seq., as amended from time to time.
         (d)   Money having a value greater than the mint face value
(collector's item), bicycles, and all other property not specifically included
in subdivisions (A)(3)(a) through (c) above shall be, at the option of the
city, held and used by the city or declared surplus property by the city
subject to the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Disposal of surplus property.
      (1)   All agencies and departments of the city shall submit to the person
responsible for coordinating city purchasing, at such time and in such form as
he or she shall prescribe, reports of all equipment, furniture, supplies,
property described in subdivision (A)(3) above and other property (other than
real property) that is underutilized or not utilized by the city, is obsolete,
or is worn out. Upon approval of the City Administrator, the city purchasing
coordinator shall have the authority to sell or otherwise dispose of any such
item of property having a value of $5,000 or less that is underutilized, not
utilized, obsolete, or worn out.
      (2)   The purchasing coordinator shall sell or otherwise dispose of such
property at public auction or sale, provided, however, that such property may
be disposed of in any manner approved by the City Administrator or his or her
designee (including but not limited to auction, sealed bid, private or public
sale, or trade-in for other property) if in his or her estimation the property
would:
         (a)   Generate proceeds at public auction or sale that would be less
than the costs and expenses of the city to sell the property at public auction
or sale; or
         (b)   Generate net proceeds at public auction or sale that would be
less than the net benefit to the city of an alternative sale or disposition of
the property.
      (3)   All sales and dispositions of property hereunder shall be in
accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and orders, including
but not limited to the Nebraska Miscellaneous Expenditures Act and the Nebraska
Political Accountability and Disclosure Act. Any item of property having a
value of more than $5,000 shall require the prior approval of the Mayor and
City Council before it is disposed of or sold.
   (C)   Proceeds from disposal of property. Except in the case of a sale or
disposal of unclaimed property described in division (A) above, the net
proceeds from any sale or disposal pursuant to division (B) above shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. The net proceeds from the sale of any
unclaimed property described in division (A) above, after payment of all costs
and expenses of the city related to the property, shall be held by the city
without interest for two years, and upon the expiration of such period, shall
be paid into the general fund of the city.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions apply:
      NET BENEFIT. The gross economic benefit from a particular sale or
disposition of property, less all costs associated with the sale or
disposition.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross proceeds from sale or auction of property, less
all costs associated with such sale or disposition.
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Contracts; appropriations
   
35.02   Contract vote
   
35.03   Contract advertising
   
35.04   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.05   Claims
   
35.06   Warrants
   
35.07   Expenditures
   
35.08   Judgements
   
35.09   Sinking funds
   
35.10   Deposit of funds
   
35.11   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; security required
   
35.12   Depository bond
   
35.13   Depository securities
   
35.14   Maximum deposits
   
35.15   Investment of funds
Sales Tax
   
35.30   Imposition
   
35.31   Administration
Annual Budget
   
35.45   Financial statement
   
35.46   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
35.47   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
to be received from taxation
   
35.48   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount taxed;
revision
   
35.49   Appropriation bill
   
35.50   Property tax request; procedure
   
35.51   Property tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 CONTRACTS; APPROPRIATIONS.
   No contract shall be made by the City Council or any committee or member
thereof and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or departments
of the city, whether the object of the expenditure is ordered by the City
Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been previously made
concerning such expense, except as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 16-501) (‘79 Code, § 1-920)
§ 35.02 CONTRACT VOTE.
   On the passage or adoption of every resolution or order to enter into a
contract or accepting of work done under contract by the Mayor or Council, the
"yeas" and "nays" shall be called and entered upon the record. To pass or adopt
any bylaw or ordinance or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a
majority of all elected members of the Council shall be required. The Mayor may
vote on any such matter if the Mayor's vote is required due to the Council
members being equally divided or a majority vote of all the elected members of
the Council cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of one or
more Council members. For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a
member of the Council.
(Neb. RS 16-503) (‘79 Code, § 1-921) (Am. Ord. 1525, passed 10-15-24)
§ 35.03 CONTRACT ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Before the City Council shall make any contract in excess of $30,000
for general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement where the
cost of such improvement shall be assessed to the property, an estimate of the
cost thereof shall be made by the City Engineer and submitted to the Council.
No contract shall be entered into for any such work, improvement or enlargement
of such an improvement, or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvement, for any price
exceeding $30,000 without advertising for bids. In advertising for bids for any
such work, or for the purchase of such equipment, the Council may publish the
amount of such estimate therewith. Such advertisement shall be published at
least seven days in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city;
provided, that in the case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or
contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency
or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy
to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or
property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the
emergency ordinance when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Council and
entered on record. If after advertising for bids as provided in this section,
the City Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract for any work or
improvement, or if the bids received by the city contain a price which exceeds
the estimated cost of the project, the Mayor and City Council may negotiate a
contract in an attempt to complete the proposed project at a cost commensurate
with the estimate given.
   (B)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the city, the City Council may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (C)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 to 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(‘79 Code, § 1-922) (Am. Ord. 263, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 548, passed 6-16-
92; Am. Ord. 692, passed 9-16-97; Am. Ord. 1161, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 1349,
passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Contract advertising requirements, see Neb. RS 16-321
   Waiver of contract advertising requirements, see Neb. RS 16-321.01
§ 35.04 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city accounts to be made by a
qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of the
fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the City Council. The said audit shall be completed and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the City Council. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual
audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain
statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the city as well
as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two
copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall
become a part of the public records of the City Clerk's office and will at all
times thereafter be open for public inspection. One copy shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City Council shall provide and file with
the City Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements
showing its actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606, 19-2901 through 19-2909) (‘79 Code, § 1-905) (Am. Ord. 380,
passed 2-5-85)
Statutory reference:
State municipal auditing requirements; similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-606
and 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 35.05 CLAIMS.
   (A)   All claims against the city, including claims for personal injury but
not including officers' salaries and interest upon public debts, must be filed
with the City Clerk. Upon the filing of any such claim, the party shall state
therein his or her post office address; and, upon the disallowance of any such
claim, it will be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the claimant, his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to such address within five days after such
disallowance.
(‘79 Code, § 1-917)
   (B)   The Council shall, prior to the allowance of any claim against the
city, examine and audit the same to determine whether it is in proper form, is
correctly computed and is justly and legally due and payable and shall
determine the proper fund from which the same is payable.
(‘79 Code, § 1-918)
Statutory reference:
   Filing and disallowance requirements, see Neb. RS 16-726
§ 35.06 WARRANTS.
   Upon allowance of a claim by the Council, the order for the payment thereof
shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which it is payable
as specified in the Annual Appropriation Bill. No order or warrant shall be
drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is
drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Treasury to the credit of
the proper fund for its payment, and no claim shall be audited or allowed
except an order or warrant for the payment thereof may legally be drawn. All
warrants drawn upon the Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and countersigned
by the Clerk and shall state the particular fund or appropriation to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid that has not been drawn upon such warrant.
Such warrants may be delivered immediately when so drawn.
(Neb. RS 16-718) (‘79 Code, § 1-919)
§ 35.07 EXPENDITURES.
   The City Council shall not have the power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance or the claim has been allowed in
accordance with applicable state statute and a fund has been provided in the
adopted budget statement out of which such claim is payable. Any transfer or
diversion of money or credits from any fund to another fund or to a purpose
other than and different from that for which proposed shall be prohibited
unless authorized by a three-fourths majority of the City Council in accordance
with applicable state statute,
(Neb. RS 16-706) (‘79 Code, § 1-908)
Statutory reference:
   Claims against the city, see Neb. RS 16-726 through 16-729
§ 35.08 JUDGMENTS.
   Should any judgment be obtained against the city, the Mayor, in consultation
with the Treasurer, and with the sanction of the City Council, may borrow a
sufficient amount to pay the same for a period of time not to extend beyond the
close of the next fiscal year. The City Council shall then add to the amount
authorized to be raised in the general tax levy the sum and interest accrued of
the judgment.
(Neb. RS 16-706) (‘79 Code, § 1-909)
§ 35.09 SINKING FUNDS.
   The City Council, subject to the limitations set forth herein and in Neb. RS
19-1301 to 19-1304, shall have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that
prescribed by state law upon the taxable value of all taxable property within
the city for a term not to exceed that prescribed by state law, in addition to
the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance of the approved uses as authorized by state
law. To initiate said sinking fund, the City Council shall declare its purpose
by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the city the proposition
to provide the improvement at the next general city election. The resolution
shall set forth such required information as specified by Neb. RS 19-1303,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
such election. Notice of the submission of said proposition, together with a
copy of the official ballot containing the proposition, shall be published in
its entirety three times on successive weeks before the day of the election in
a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, or if no legal
newspaper is in or of general circulation in the municipality, in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. The sinking fund may be established after the election if a majority
or more of the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the fund. The
City Council may then proceed to establish said fund in conformity with the
provisions of the proposition and applicable state law. The funds received by
the City Treasurer shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested with the
written approval of the City Council in the manner provided by state law. No
sinking fund so established shall be used for any purpose or purposes contrary
to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the City Council is
authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a
general election favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
(‘79 Code, § 1-910) (Am. Ord. 1444, passed 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304
   Investment of funds, see Neb. RS 77-2335 through 77-2339
§ 35.10 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks or capital stock financial institutions of approved
and responsible standing, all money collected, received, or held by him or her
as City Treasurer. Such deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by
law or adopted by the City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The
fact that a stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank or capital
stock financial institution shall also be serving as Mayor, as a member of the
City Council, as a member of a board of public works, or as any other officer
of the city shall not disqualify the bank or capital stock financial
institution from acting as a depository for municipal funds. The provisions of
Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions.
(Neb. RS 16-712) (‘79 Code, § 1-911)
§ 35.11 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; SECURITY REQUIRED.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in banks or capital stock financial institutions selected as
depositories of city funds under the provisions of Neb. RS 16-712, 16-714, and
16-715. The certificates of deposit purchased and time deposits made shall bear
interest and shall be secured as set forth in Neb. RS 16-714 and 16-715, except
that the penal sum of such bond or the sum of such security shall be reduced in
the amount of the time deposit or certificate of deposit insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to
deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 16-713) (‘79 Code, § 1-912)
§ 35.12 DEPOSITORY BOND.
   For the security of the fund so deposited, the City Treasurer shall require
each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of such deposits
and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the city and be approved by
the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned that such a depository shall, at the
end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing
the several daily balances, the amount of money of the city held by it during
the quarter, the amount of the accretion thereto, and how credited. The bond
shall also be conditioned that the depository shall generally do and perform
whatever may be required by the provisions of Neb. RS 16-712 through 16-715 and
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in such depository. The bond shall be as
nearly as practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any
way connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be
accepted as a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is
an officer or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the City Clerk. The
provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 16-714) (‘79 Code, § 1-913)
§ 35.13 DEPOSITORY SECURITIES.
   In lieu of the bond required by this code, any bank or capital stock
financial institution making application to become a depository may give
security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to the City
Clerk. The penal sum of the bond shall be equal to or greater than the amount
of the deposit in excess of that portion of the deposit insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 apply to
deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
(‘79 Code, § 1-914)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-2364 and 77-2386 through 77-2397
§ 35.14 MAXIMUM DEPOSITS.
   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus 1/2 of the amount of the bond of
such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on deposit
any time with any bank or capital stock financial institution shall not in
either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank or capital
stock financial institution. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any
loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Mayor as provided in this code or which has,
in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in this code.
(Neb. RS 16-716) (‘79 Code, § 1-915) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 1-17-95)
§ 35.15 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever the city shall have accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund shall exceed the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Mayor and Council are authorized to invest such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits and in securities in which the state
investment officer is authorized by law to invest and as provided in the
authorized investment guidelines to the Nebraska Investment Council in effect
on the date the investment is made.
(Neb. RS 77-2341) (‘79 Code, § 1-916) (Am. Ord. 490, passed 2-6-90)
SALES TAX
§ 35.30 IMPOSITION.
   (A)   A local option sales and use tax is imposed and levied for the benefit
of the city at a total rate of 2% upon the same transactions that are sourced
under the provisions of applicable Nebraska statutes within the corporate
limits of the city, as constituted from time to time, on which the State of
Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the Nebraska Revenue Act of
1967, as amended from time to time, which 2% tax shall be comprised of the
following components:
      (1)   One percent city sales and use tax originally effective on or about
April 1, 1985 and continuing in perpetuity;
      (2)   Additional one-half of one percent city sales and use tax
originally effective on or about October 1,1990 and continuing in effect until
July 1,2025; and
      (3)   Additional one-half of one percent city sales and use tax effective
October 1 2014, or as otherwise required by Neb. RS 77-27,143, and continuing
for a period of ten years after said effective date, unless bonds at any time
are issued and some or all of the additional revenues from this additional tax
are pledged for payment of said bonds, in which case the increased sales and
use tax rate and additional tax of an additional one-half of one percent shall
remain in effect and additional revenues collected until payment in full of
said bonds and any refunding bonds, whichever is later.
   (B)   Additional local option sales and use taxes described in divisions (A)
(2) and (3) above each shall be subject to any extensions or other
modifications from time to time adopted or approved by the city in accordance
with applicable law, without regard to whether or not this section also is
revised to incorporate or otherwise reflect said extension or other
modification.
(‘79 Code, §§ 1-106 and 10-901) (Am. Ord. 1216, passed 6-3-14)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq.
§ 35.31 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed hereby, the making of
return for ascertainment, assessment and collection and for the distribution of
the taxes so imposed shall be as provided in the Local Option Revenue Act, Neb.
RS 77-27,142 through 77-27,148, as amended from time to time.
(‘79 Code, § 10-903)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq.
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.45 FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   The Mayor and Council shall cause to be published semiannually a statement
of the receipts of the city and an itemized account of the expenditures of the
city.
(Neb. RS 16-722) (‘79 Code, § 1-901) (Am. Ord. 565, passed 5-4-93)
§ 35.46 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially, as the case may be,
prepare a proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made
available to the public by the city prior to publication of the notice of the
hearing on the proposed budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-506. A proposed
budget statement shall contain the following information, except as provided by
state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property allocated to each fund; and the amount
of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is applicable. Such statement shall
contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and shall note
whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash reserve projections shall
be based upon the actual experience of prior years or biennial periods. The
cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council or the legal voters of the city; and
         (b)   For all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 13-504(1))
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the city, as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the city, and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
(Neb. RS 13-504(2))
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504(3))
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement in accordance with requirements of Nebraska statutes. The amount to
be raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above,
plus the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes,
and the unencumbered balances, shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. 13-505) (‘79 Code, § 1-902) (Am. Ord. 381, passed 2-5-85; Am. Ord. 602,
passed 1-3-95; Am. Ord. 701, passed 10-21-97; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 8-15-17;
Am. Ord. 1468, passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement provisions for years 1993 through 2000, see Neb. RS 13-504(2)
§ 35.47 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   (1)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the City
Clerk, the City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on the proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four
calendar days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city and, if available, on the city’s website. For
purposes of such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of
publication but not the day of hearing.
      (2)   When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
      (3)   At such hearing, the governing body shall make at least three
copies of the proposed budget statement available to the public and shall make
a presentation outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement,
including but not limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any
member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall
be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a
reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (4)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted
or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
         (a)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council or the legal voters of the city; and
         (b)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
      (5)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown
in the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for such changes.
   (B)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor of Public Accounts may review the
budget for errors in mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with
the provisions of the Nebraska Budget Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the
Auditor of Public Accounts detects such errors, he or she shall immediately
notify the City Council of such errors. The City Council shall correct any such
error as provided in Neb. RS 13-511. Warrants for the payment of expenditures
provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid,
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor of Public
Accounts has notified the City Council.
   (C)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(‘79 Code, § 1-903) (Am. Ord. 1314, passed 8-15-17; Am. Ord. 1444, passed 2-1-
22; Am. Ord. 1468, passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement provisions for years 1993 through 2000, see Neb. RS 13-506(1)
   Similar state provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506(2), 13-507
§ 35.48 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT TAXED;
REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the Levying Board or Boards, on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council or the legal voters of the city; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under Neb. RS 13-505.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
   (D)   A previously adopted budget statement may be revised in accordance
with applicable Nebraska statutes, as enacted, amended, or superseded from time
to time.
(‘79 Code, § 1-904) (Am. Ord. 603, passed 1-3-95; Am. Ord. 670, passed 6-17-97;
Am. Ord. 702, passed 10-21-97; Am. Ord. 1030, passed 5-1-07; Am. Ord. 1121,
passed 4-20-10; Am. Ord. 1314, passed 8-15-17; Am. Ord. 1444, passed 2-1-22;
Am. Ord. 1468, passed 12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions regarding reimbursement of property taxes pursuant to
Neb. RS 13-504(1), see Neb. RS 13-508(1)
   Similar state provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 35.49 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The city shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act,
to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are appropriated such
sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 16-704) (‘79 Code, § 1-907) (Am. Ord. 604, passed 1-3-95; Am. Ord.
671, passed 6-17-97)
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE.
   The city annually in connection with its consideration and approval of a
property tax request for the upcoming fiscal year shall comply with applicable
requirements of state statutes, including without limitation all applicable
notice, public hearing, approval, certification, filing and other requirements
of the Property Tax Request Act set forth in Neb. RS 77-1630 through 77-1634,
as amended or superseded from time to time.
(‘79 Code, § 1-904.01) (Ord. 703, passed 10-21-97; Am. Ord. 1031, passed 5-1-
07; Am. Ord. 1444, passed 2-1-22; Am. Ord. 1468, passed 12-6-22; Am. Ord. 1483,
passed 5-16-23; Am. Ord. 1525, passed 10-15-24)
Statutory update:
   Similar state provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1630 through 77-1634
§ 35.51 PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the Mayor and City Council
shall have the power to levy and collect taxes for all city purposes on the
taxable property within the corporate limits of the city. All city taxes,
except special assessments otherwise provided for, shall become due on the
first day of December of each year.
   (B)   At the time provided for by law, the Council shall cause to be
certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied for the purposes
of the adopted budget statement on the taxable property within the corporation
for the year then ensuing, as shown on the assessment roll for they year,
including all special assessments and taxes as hereinbefore provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the proper tax list to be collected in the
manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes.
   (C)   In all sales for delinquent taxes for municipal purposes, if there are
other delinquent taxes due from the same person or lien on the same property,
the sales shall be for all delinquent taxes. Such sales and all sales made
under and by virtue of this section or the provisions of law herein referred to
shall be of the same validity and, in all respects, shall be deemed and treated
as though such sale had been made for the delinquent county taxes exclusively.
   (D)   The maximum amount of tax which may be certified, assessed, and
collected for purposes of the adopted budget statement shall not require a tax
levy in excess of $0.875 on each $100 upon the taxable value of the taxable
property within the city. Any special assessments, special taxes, amounts
assessed as taxes, and such sums as may be authorized by law to be levied for
the payment of outstanding bonds and debts may be made by the City Council in
addition to the levy of $0.875 on each $100 upon the taxable value of the
taxable property within the city. The City Council may certify a further amount
of tax to be levied which shall not require a tax levy in excess of $0.07 on
each $100 upon the taxable value of the taxable property within the city for
the purpose of establishing the sinking fund or sinking funds authorized by
Neb. RS 19-1301 to 19-1304, and, in addition thereto when required by Neb. RS
18-501, a further levy of $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of the
taxable property within the city may be imposed.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize an increase in
the amounts of levies for any specific municipal purpose or purposes elsewhere
limited by law, whether limited in specific sums or by tax levies.
(Neb. RS 16-702) (‘79 Code, § 1-906)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Adoption by reference
§ 36.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   All elections within the city shall be held and conducted in accordance with
state statutes regarding elections, and other state law regarding elections,
all of which are hereby adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as if
fully set forth herein. All city issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance
of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. When the city holds an election in conjunction with
the statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as
provided in the Election Act. Any other election by the city shall be held as
provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by Neb. RS 19-3001 to
19-3052.
(Neb. RS 32-404(1), 32-556) (‘79 Code, § 1-801)
CHAPTER 37: CIVIL SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Positions created; elimination
   
37.02   Establishment of salaries and compensation
   
37.03   Payment of compensation for services
   
37.04   City’s duty to Commission
   
37.05   Political fund contribution and political service
   
37.06   Obstructing examinations
   
37.07   City Administrator, Fire Chief and Chief of Police; absences and the
like
   
37.08   Employee notice
   
37.09   Appointments and promotions
   
37.10   Requirements for civil service position applicants
   
37.11   Filling of vacant positions
   
37.12   Probationary period
   
37.13   Disciplinary actions
   
37.14   Leave of absence
   
37.15   Reduction in force policy
Civil Service Commission
   
37.30   Created
   
37.31   Appointment of members
   
37.32   Term of office
   
37.33   Removal from office
   
37.34   Compensation of members
   
37.35   Meetings
   
37.36   Chairperson
   
37.37   Secretary and Chief Examiner
   
37.38   Quorum
   
37.39   Powers and duties
Statutory reference:
   State Civil Service Act, Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1847
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 POSITIONS CREATED; ELIMINATION.
   (A)   This civil service chapter shall apply only to any paid full-time Fire
Chief; and all present full- time police officers of the city, including any
paid full-time Police Chief, and future appointees to such full-time positions.
Full-time police officers shall mean police officers in positions which require
certification by the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center, who have the
power of arrest, who are paid regularly by the city and for whom law
enforcement is a full-time career, but shall not include clerical, custodial or
maintenance personnel. Paid full-time Fire Chief shall mean a duly appointed
firefighter who is paid regularly by the city and for whom firefighting is a
full-time career.
(‘79 Code, § 14-101)
   (B)   All positions subject to the Civil Service Act shall be created or
eliminated by the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   As used in this chapter, COMMISSION means the Civil Service Commission
created by §
37.30.
(‘79 Code, § 14-102) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86;
Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07)
Statutory reference:
   State Civil Service Act, Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1847
Cross-reference:
   Powers and duties of the City Administrator, see §
31.23
§ 37.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   This chapter shall not be construed to infringe upon the power and authority
of the Mayor and Council to establish salaries and compensation of employees.
(‘79 Code, § 14-103) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.03 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES.
   No treasurer, auditor, comptroller, or other officer or employee of the city
shall approve the payment of or be in any manner concerned in paying, auditing,
or approving any salary, wage, or other compensation for services to any person
to whom this chapter and the Nebraska Civil Service Act apply, unless the
person to receive such salary, wage, or other compensation has been appointed
or employed in compliance with such Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1837) (‘79 Code, § 14-104) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.04 CITY’S DUTY TO COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall provide the Commission with suitable and
convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated,
lighted and supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry
on the business of the Commission and with such clerical assistance as may be
necessary.
(Neb. RS 19-1843)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city to appropriate each fiscal year, from
the general funds of the city, a sum of money sufficient to pay the necessary
expenses involved in carrying out the purposes of the Civil Service Act,
including but not limited to reasonable attorney's fees for any special counsel
appointed by the Commission. The City Attorney shall provide general legal
counsel to the Commission, unless the Mayor determines special counsel is
necessary. The City Administrator may establish the hourly or monthly rate of
pay of such special counsel.
(Neb. RS 19-1846)
   (C)   The city shall afford the Commission, its members and employees all
reasonable facilities and assistance to inspect all books, papers, documents
and accounts applying or in any way appertaining to any and all positions and
employments subject to civil service and shall produce such books, papers,
documents and accounts. All city officers and employees shall attend and
testify whenever required to do so by the Commission, the accused or the City
Administrator.
(‘79 Code, § 14-105) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.05 POLITICAL FUND CONTRIBUTION AND POLITICAL SERVICE.
   No person holding any position subject to civil service shall be under any
obligation to contribute to any political fund or to render any political
service to any person or party whatsoever. No person shall be removed, reduced
in position or salary or otherwise prejudiced for refusing so to do. No public
officer, whether elected or appointed, shall discharge, promote, demote or in
any manner change the official rank, employment or compensation of any person
under civil service or promise or threaten to do so for giving, withholding or
neglecting to make any contribution of money, services or any valuable thing
for any political purposes.
(‘79 Code, § 14-106) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.06 OBSTRUCTING EXAMINATIONS.
   No Commissioner or any other person shall by himself or herself or in
cooperation with one or more persons:
   (A)   Defeat, deceive or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the Civil
Service Act;
   (B)   Falsely mark, grade, estimate or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with such act or aid
in so doing;
   (C)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
person examined;
   (D)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined or
certified to be examined or certified; or
   (E)   Persuade any other person to permit or aid in any manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application or request to be so examined.
(‘79 Code, § 14-107)
§ 37.07 CITY ADMINISTRATOR, FIRE CHIEF AND CHIEF OF POLICE; ABSENCES AND THE
LIKE.
   Except as provided otherwise in §
37.13(C)(18), during the absence, incapacity, suspension or vacancy in office
of the City Administrator, Fire Chief or the Chief of Police, the powers herein
delegated by the Mayor and City Council to the City Administrator, Fire Chief
and Chief of Police shall be assumed and performed by the Acting City
Administrator, Acting Fire Chief and Acting Chief of Police, respectively, or
by such other person as the Mayor and City Council shall designate to act in
their stead.
(‘79 Code, § 14-108) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86;
Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07)
§ 37.08 EMPLOYEE NOTICE.
   The City Administrator shall provide each person to whom this chapter and
the Civil Service Act apply with a copy of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 14-109) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86)
Statutory reference:
   State Civil Service Act, Neb. RS 19-1825 to 19-1847
§ 37.09 APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS.
   All appointments to and promotions in the Police Department, and any
appointment to the position of Fire Chief, shall be made solely on merit,
efficiency and fitness, which shall be ascertained by open competitive
examination and impartial investigation by the Commission. Appointments shall
mean all means of selecting, appointing or employing any person to hold any
position or employment subject to civil service. Promotion or demotion shall
mean changing from one position to another, accompanied by a corresponding
change in current rate of pay. Position shall mean an individual job which is
designated by an official title indicative of the nature of the work.
(‘79 Code, § 14-301) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86;
Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions; appointment; promotion, see Neb. RS 19-1829
§ 37.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR CIVIL SERVICE POSITION APPLICANTS.
   (A)   An applicant for a position of any kind under civil service shall be
able to read and write the English language, meet the minimum job
qualifications of the position as established by the City Administrator and be
of good moral character. An applicant shall be required to disclose his or her
past employment history and his or her criminal record, if any, and submit a
full set of his or her fingerprints and a written statement of permission
authorizing the City Administrator to forward the fingerprints for
identification. Prior to certifying to the City Administrator the name of the
persons eligible for the position or positions, the Commission shall validate
the qualifications of such person.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall require an applicant, as part of the
application process, to submit a full set of his or her fingerprints along with
written permission authorizing the City Administrator to forward the
fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the Nebraska State
Patrol for identification. Fingerprint identification shall be solely for the
purpose of confirming information provided by the applicant.
   (C)   Any fingerprints received by the Commission or City Administrator
pursuant to a request made under division (B) of this section and any
information in the custody of the Commission or City Administrator resulting
from inquiries or investigations made with regard to those fingerprints
initiated by the Commission or City Administrator shall not be a public record
within the meaning of Neb. RS 84-712 to 84-712.09 and shall be withheld from
the public by the lawful custodians of such fingerprints and information and
shall only be released to those lawfully entitled to the possession of such
fingerprints and information. Any member, officer, agent or employee of the
Commission, City Administrator or city who comes into possession of the
fingerprints and information gathered pursuant to division (B) of this section
shall be an official within the meaning of Neb. RS 84-712.09.
(Neb. RS 19-1831) (‘79 Code, § 14-302) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86; Am. Ord. 773, passed 4-4-99)
§ 37.11 FILLING OF VACANT POSITIONS.
   (A)   Considerations. If the City Administrator fills a vacancy in a
position subject to the Civil Service Act, he or she shall consider factors,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the applicant which are necessary for the position;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the applicant which are
necessary for the position;
      (3)   The performance appraisals of any applicant who is already employed
in the department, including any recent or pending disciplinary actions
involving the employee;
      (4) The employment policies and staffing needs of the department together
with contracts, ordinances and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses
necessary for the position; and
      (6)   The qualifications of the applicants who are already employed in
the Police Department or who are already members of the Volunteer Fire
Department and have successfully completed all parts of the examination for the
position. No person shall be reinstated in or transferred, suspended or
discharged from any such position or employment contrary to the Civil Service
Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1829)
   (B)   Procedure for filling vacant positions. Whenever a position subject to
this chapter becomes vacant, the City Administrator shall make requisition upon
the Commission for the name and addresses of the persons eligible for
appointment and may decline to fill such vacancy for an indefinite period. If
the Commission certifies fewer than three names for each vacancy to the City
Administrator, the City Administrator may appoint one of such persons to fill
the vacancy, may decline to fill the vacancy, or may order that another
examination be held by the Civil Service Commission.
(Neb. RS 19-1835(1) and (3))
   (C)   Temporary appointments. If a vacancy occurs and there is no eligible
list for the position or if the Commission has not certified persons from the
eligible list, a temporary appointment may be made by the City Administrator.
Such temporary appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four
months. No person shall receive more than one temporary appointment or serve
more than four months as a temporary appointee in any one fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-1835(4)) (‘79 Code, § 14-303) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07)
§ 37.12 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   To enable the City Administrator to exercise a choice in the filling
of positions, no appointment, employment, or promotion in any position in the
civil service within the Police Department shall be deemed complete until after
the expiration of a period of not less than six months nor more than one year
after certification by the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center for Police
Officers, as such probationary period may be provided in the rules of the Civil
Service Commission, during which time the City Administrator may terminate the
employment of the person appointed by him or her if, during the performance
test thus afforded and upon an observation or consideration of the performance
of duty, the City Administrator deems such person unfit or unsatisfactory for
service in the Police Department. The City Administrator may appoint one of the
other persons certified by the Commission and such person shall likewise enter
upon such duties until some person is found who is fit for appointment,
employment, or promotion for the probationary period provided and then the
appointment, employment, or promotion shall be complete.
   (B)   To enable the City Administrator to exercise a choice in filling the
Fire Chief position, no appointment, employment or promotion to the Fire Chief
position shall be deemed complete until after the expiration of a period of not
less than three months nor more than six months, as such probationary period
may be provided in the rules of the Civil Service Commission, during which time
the City Administrator may terminate the employment of the person appointed by
him or her if, during the performance test thus afforded and upon an
observation or consideration of the performance of duty, the City Administrator
deems such person unfit or unsatisfactory for service in the Fire Department.
The City Administrator may appoint one of the other persons certified by the
Commission and such person shall likewise enter upon such duties until some
person is found who is fit for appointment, employment or promotion for the
probationary period provided and the appointment , employment or probation
shall be complete.
(Neb. RS 19-1835(5)) (‘79 Code, § 14-304) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07)
§ 37.13 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Tenure of employment. The tenure of a person holding a position of
employment subject to this chapter shall be only during good behavior.
   (B)   Causes for disciplinary action. Any such person may be removed or
discharged, suspended with or without pay, demoted, reduced in rank or deprived
of vacation, benefits, compensation, or other privileges, except pension
benefits, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Incompetency, inefficiency, or inattention to or dereliction of
duty;
      (2)   Dishonesty, prejudicial conduct, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public or a fellow employee or member of the
Volunteer Fire Department, any act of omission or commission tending to injure
the public service, any willful failure on the part of the employee to properly
conduct himself or herself, or any willful violation of the Civil Service Act
or the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to such act;
      (3)   Mental or physical unfitness for the position which the employee
holds;
      (4)   Drunkenness or the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or any
other habit-forming drug, liquid, or preparation to such an extent that the use
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee or
precludes the employee from properly performing the functions and duties of his
or her position;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor tending to injure the
employee's ability to effectively perform the duties of his or her position; or
      (6)   Any other act or failure to act which, in the judgment of the Civil
Service Commission, is sufficient to show the offender to be an unsuitable and
unfit person to be employed in the public service.
   (C)   Disciplinary action procedure.
      (1)   No employee in the civil service who shall have been permanently
appointed or inducted into civil service under this chapter shall be removed,
suspended, demoted or discharged, except for cause and then only upon the
written accusation of the Police Chief, City Administrator or any citizen or
taxpayer.
      (2)   (a)   The written accusation shall set forth in general terms the
alleged misconduct, charges or grounds for investigation against the employee.
The written accusation shall be filed by the complainant or accuser with the
Secretary of the Commission, who shall cause a copy of such written accusation
to be delivered within five working days after the filing:
            1.   To the Police Chief;
            2.   To the City Administrator; and
            3.   To the employee personally or by delivery addressed to the
employee and left at the residence address of the employee shown in the
personnel records of the city.
         (b)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing
such delivery to be executed and filed in the Secretary's office.
      (3)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to immediately
suspend, with pay, an employee against whom such written accusation has been
filed, pending reinstatement, removal, demotion, discharge or further
suspension of the employee, with or without pay.
      (4)   (a)   Prior to any decision by the City Administrator regarding a
written accusation, the Police Chief shall, within 30 calendar days after
receiving the written accusation from the Secretary of the Commission,
investigate the alleged misconduct, charges or grounds against the employee. If
the Police Chief's investigation reveals other misconduct, charges or grounds,
the Police Chief shall supplement the written accusation to include the other
misconduct, charges or grounds by filing a supplement to the written accusation
with the Secretary of the Commission, who shall cause a copy of such
supplemental accusation to be delivered within five working days after the
filing:
            1.   To the City Administrator; and
            2.   To the employee personally or by delivery addressed to the
employee and left at the residence address of the employee shown in the
personnel records of the city.
         (b)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing
such delivery to be executed and filed in the Secretary's office.
         (c)   Within 30 calendar days after receiving the written accusation
from the Secretary of the Commission, the Police Chief shall recommend in
writing to the City Administrator that the alleged misconduct, charges or
grounds set forth in the written accusation be deemed:
            1.   To be without merit;
            2.   To not warrant disciplinary action;
            3.   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge or suspension with or without pay, such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
            4.   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge or suspension with or
without pay.
         (d)   In the event that the Police Chief or the Fire Chief is the
subject of a written accusation or is being disciplined, the City Administrator
shall follow the same procedures as are followed by the Police Chief in
disciplining employees under this chapter, except that the City Administrator
shall not be required to submit a written recommendation for disciplinary
action to himself or herself under the preceding division (C)(4)(c).
      (5)   (a)   The City Administrator shall decide to accept the
recommendation of the Police Chief or shall decide that the alleged misconduct,
charges or grounds for investigation against the employee set forth in the
written accusation be deemed:
            1.   To be without merit;
            2.   To not warrant disciplinary action;
            3.   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge, or suspension with or without pay such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
            4.   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge or suspension with or
without pay.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall not decide to take any action which
may result in a suspension without pay, a demotion resulting in a reduction in
pay, or a discharge without first giving the affected employee notice of the
charges against him or her, an explanation of the city's evidence and an
opportunity to present reasons, either in person or in writing, why the
proposed disciplinary action should not be implemented.
         (c)   The decision of the City Administrator shall, if it results in
suspension of more than ten working days, a demotion resulting in a reduction
in pay or a discharge, not be implemented until it has been approved by the
City Council. The City Council may approve the decision of the City
Administrator or modify it as the Council deems appropriate. Such approved or
modified decision shall be deemed to be the decision of the Administrator for
the purposes of this chapter. If Council approval is required, the City
Administrator shall, within 20 working days after receiving the written
recommendation of the Police Chief, file a copy of his or her decision with the
City Clerk and request that the matter be reviewed by the City Council. Within
20 working days after receipt of the written recommendation of the Police Chief
when City Council review is not required, and within 20 working days after the
City Council's approval or modification when City Council approval is required,
a copy of the City Administrator's decision shall be delivered:
            1.   To the Secretary of the Commission;
            2.   To the Police Chief; and
            3.   To the employee personally or by delivery addressed to the
employee and left at the residence address of the employee shown in the
personnel records of the city. The City Administrator shall cause a return
showing such delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the office of the
Secretary of the Commission.
      (6)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 19-1833(3), any employee so removed, suspended,
demoted, or discharged may, within ten calendar days after receiving written
notice of the City Administrator's decision, as such decision has been approved
or modified if subject to City Council approval, file a written demand for an
investigation and public hearing by the Civil Service Commission. The employee
shall file the request for the hearing with the Secretary of the Commission
within ten calendar days after the service of notice of the decision of the
City Administrator. The failure to file such request within ten calendar days
after the service of the notice of the decision of the City Administrator shall
constitute a waiver of the employee's right to review by the Civil Service
Commission, and the decision of the City Administrator, as approved or modified
if subject to City Council approval, shall become final.
      (7)   Within three calendar days after receipt of the employee's timely
written demand for an investigation and public hearing, the City Administrator
shall cause to be delivered to the employee or to the employee's residence and
to the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission a notice containing:
         (a)   A statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
city and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be offered by the city in support of
the charge(s).
      (8)   Within six calendar days after the filing of the employee's timely
written demand for an investigation and public hearing, or within three days
following his/her receipt of the information required by division (C)(7),
whichever is later, the employee shall deliver copies of the following to both
the City Administrator and the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission:
         (a)   A response to the statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
employee and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be offered by the employee in
response to the charge(s).
      (9)   Within nine calendar days after the employee's timely filing of the
written demand for an investigation and public hearing or within two days
following his/her receipt of the information required by division (C)(8),
whichever is later, the City Administrator shall cause to be delivered to the
employee or to the employee's residence and to the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission a list of rebuttal evidence expected to be presented by the
city at the hearing, including a list of rebuttal witnesses with a general
statement of the substance of their testimony and a list of any documents
expected to be introduced to rebut the employee's evidence.
      (10)   If any of the deadlines provided for in divisions (C)(2), (4),
(5), (7), (8), or (9) falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday observed by
the city, then such deadline shall be extended to the next working day.
Furthermore, such deadlines and time limits are directory and not
jurisdictional, and the failure of either party to meet any one of such
deadlines and time limits shall not prevent or bar the imposition of
appropriate disciplinary action, or result in the suspension, termination or
abatement of any disciplinary proceeding or disciplinary action previously
imposed.
      (11)   Upon receipt of an employee's timely written demand for an
investigation and public hearing, the Commission shall conduct an
investigation. The Commission shall be represented in such investigation by the
City Attorney, if authorized by the City Administrator. If the City Attorney
does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented by special
counsel appointed by the Commission for such investigation. The investigation
shall be based upon a review of the materials filed by the City Administrator
and by the employee with the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, and
shall be confined to the determination of whether the disciplinary action was
made in good faith for cause, which shall mean that the action was not
arbitrary or capricious and was not made for political or religious reasons.
The Commission and its members may also review the submissions of the City
Administrator and of the employee to determine whether any individuals or
documents should be subpoenaed by the Commission for the subsequent public
hearing before the Commission.
      (12)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing to be held after
the investigation and no less than ten nor more than 20 calendar days from the
date of filing of the employee's written demand for an investigation and public
hearing. The Commission shall notify the City Administrator and employee in
writing at least three calendar days prior to the date of the hearing of the
date, time and place of hearing. The Commission may be represented at such
hearing by the City Attorney, if authorized by the City Administrator. If the
City Attorney does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be
represented by special counsel appointed by the Commission for such hearing.
      (13)   The City Administrator shall be permitted to appear in person and
by counsel and to present the case of the city. The City Administrator may
present evidence by testimony, documents, and other exhibits and shall be
permitted to cross-examine the employee’s witnesses. At the hearing, the
employee shall be permitted to appear in person and by counsel and to present
his or her defense. The employee may present evidence by testimony, documents,
and other exhibits and shall be permitted to cross-examine the witnesses called
by the city.
      (14)   The Commission may affirm the action taken by the City
Administrator, if such action is supported by a preponderance of the evidence.
If the Commission finds that the removal, suspension, demotion or discharge was
made for political or religious reasons or was not made in good faith for
cause, it shall order the immediate reinstatement or reemployment of the
employee in the position or employment from which the employee was removed,
suspended, demoted or discharged, which reinstatement shall, if the Commission
in its discretion so provides, be retroactive and entitle such person to
compensation and restoration of benefits and privileges from the time of such
removal, suspension, demotion or discharge.
      (15)   Upon the hearing, in lieu of affirming the removal, suspension,
demotion or discharge, the Commission may modify the order of removal,
suspension, demotion or discharge by directing a suspension, with or without
pay, for a given period and the subsequent restoration to duty or demotion in
position or pay. No later than ten calendar days after the hearing, the
Commission shall certify its findings in writing to the employee and to the
City Administrator who shall enforce them.
      (16)   Appeals from the decision of the Civil Service Commission may be
taken to the District Court in the manner provided by law.
      (17)   A day shall be counted as a working day under divisions (C)(2),
(4), and (5) only if both the person required to serve a document or thing or
to perform an act and the person or persons who are to receive service of the
document or thing or to be the recipient or recipients of such action are both
actively on duty and working for the city within the corporate limits of the
city on such day. For purposes of this division (C), both the City Council and
the Civil Service Commission shall be deemed to be actively on duty and working
for the city within the corporate limits of the city each day that is not a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the city.
      (18)   The Acting City Administrator may act for the City Administrator
under this division (C) only if the office of City Administrator is vacant or
if the City Administrator is and has been incapacitated due to illness, injury,
or suspension for in excess of 14 calendar days. The Acting Chief of Police may
act for the Chief of Police under this division (C) only if the office of Chief
of Police is vacant or if the Chief of Police is and has been incapacitated due
to illness, injury, or suspension for in excess of 14 calendar days.
(‘79 Code, § 14-305) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86;
Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 1422, passed 6-1-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-1833
   Similar state provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1832
§ 37.14 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   A leave of absence with or without pay may be granted by the City
Administrator to any person under civil service. The City Administrator shall
give notice of such leave to the Commission. All appointments for temporary
employment resulting from such leaves of absence shall be made from the
eligible list, if any, of the civil service.
(Neb. RS 19-1838) (‘79 Code, § 14-306) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.15 REDUCTION IN FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Establishment. The Mayor and Council shall establish a reduction in
force policy for employees covered by this chapter, and in so doing shall
consider recommendations from the Civil Service Commission, but shall not be
bound by such recommendations. Prior to the adoption of a reduction in force
policy the Mayor and Council shall, after giving reasonable notice of each
police officer by first class mail, conduct a public hearing.
   (B)   Factors. The Mayor and Council shall adopt a reduction in force policy
which shall consider factors, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the employee;
      (3)   The performance appraisal of the employee, including any recent or
pending disciplinary actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the Department
together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses; and
      (6)   Seniority.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(10)) (‘79 Code, § 14-401) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 37.30 CREATED.
   There is hereby created in the city a Civil Service Commission which shall
have five members who shall each be a citizen of the United States, a resident
of the city for at least three years immediately preceding his or her
appointment, and an elector of the county wherein such person resides.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(2)) (‘79 Code, § 14-201) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.31 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Council. At the time of any appointment, not more than
three of the five members of the Civil Service Commission, including the one or
ones to be appointed, shall be registered electors of the same political party.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(4)) (‘79 Code, § 14-202) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
Statutory reference:
   Appointing authority, see Neb. RS 19-1826(2)
§ 37.32 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members appointed to the Civil Service Commission
shall be five years, except that the first five members appointed pursuant
hereto shall be appointed for different terms as follows: one to serve for a
period of one year; one to serve for a period of two years; one to serve for a
period of three years; one to serve for a period of four years; and one to
serve for a period of five years.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(2)) (‘79 Code, § 14-203) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.33 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the Commission shall devote due time and attention to the
performance of the duties specified in this Act. Any member of the Civil
Service Commission may be removed from office for incompetency, dereliction of
duty, malfeasance in office or other good cause by the Mayor with the approval
of the Council, except that no member of the Civil Service Commission shall be
removed until written charges have been preferred, due notice given such member
and a full hearing had before the Mayor and Council. Any member so removed may
appeal to the District Court in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(3) and (4)) (‘79 Code, § 14-204) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85;
Am. Ord. 411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.34 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Civil Service Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(2)) (‘79 Code, § 14-205) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.35 MEETINGS.
   The Civil Service Commission shall hold meetings as may be required for the
proper discharge of its duties.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(1)) (‘79 Code, § 14-206) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.36 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Civil Service Commission shall elect one of its members as Chairperson
immediately after the appointment of the first five members pursuant hereto and
annually thereafter.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(1)) (‘79 Code, § 14-207) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.37 SECRETARY AND CHIEF EXAMINER.
   The Civil Service Commission shall appoint a Secretary and a Chief Examiner
who shall keep the records of the Commission, preserve all reports made to it,
superintend and keep a record of all examinations held under its direction and
perform such other duties as the Commission may prescribe. The Commission may
merge the positions of Secretary and Chief Examiner and appoint one person to
perform the duties of both positions. The Commission shall appoint the city's
personnel officer as Secretary and Chief Examiner, if requested to do so by the
Mayor. The Chief Examiner shall be responsible for administering examinations
and for reporting the results thereof to the Commission. The Secretary and
Chief Examiner shall be subject to suspension or discharge from his or her
duties as Secretary and Chief Examiner upon the vote of a majority of the
appointed members of the Commission.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(1)) (‘79 Code, § 14-208) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.38 QUORUM.
   Three members of the five-member Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Neb. RS 19-1827(4)) (‘79 Code, § 14-209) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86)
§ 37.39 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt and promulgate procedural rules and
regulations which shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may
be held and shall provide for any other matters assigned to it by the City
Administrator. At least one copy of the rules and regulations and any
amendments shall be made available for examination and reproduction by members
of the public. One copy of the rules and regulations and any amendments shall
be given to each full-time police officer and to the Fire Chief.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(2))
   (B)   The Commission shall provide that all tests shall be practical and
consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the capacity of persons
who are to be examined to perform the duties of the position to which an
appointment is to be made and may include but not be limited to tests of
physical fitness and of manual skill and psychological testing.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(3))
   (C)   By its rules and regulations, the Commission shall provide for a
credit of 10% on any written examination in favor of all applicants for an
appointment to an entry level position under civil service who, in time of war
or in any expedition of the armed forces of the United States, have served in
and been honorably discharged from the armed forces of the United States and
who have equaled or exceeded the minimum qualifying standards established by
the City Administrator for such entry level position. The City Administrator
shall define which positions are entry level positions qualifying for such
credit.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(4))
   (D)   The Commission may conduct an investigation concerning and report upon
all matters regarding the enforcement and effect of the Civil Service Act and
the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(5))
   (E)   The Commission may inspect all institutions, departments, positions
and employments affected by the Civil Service Act to determine whether such act
and all such rules and regulations are being obeyed. Such investigations may be
conducted by the Commission or by any Commissioner designated by the Commission
for that purpose. The Commission shall also make a like investigation on the
written petition of a citizen, duly verified, stating that irregularities or
abuses exist or setting forth, in concise language, the necessity for such an
investigation. The City Attorney shall provide general legal counsel to the
Commission in relation to such an investigation, unless the Mayor determines
special counsel is necessary. If the Mayor determines special counsel is
necessary, the Commission may be represented by special counsel appointed by
the Commission in any such investigation. In the course of such an
investigation, the Commission, designated Commissioner or Chief Examiner shall
have the power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas to require the attendance
of witnesses and the production by them of books, papers, documents and
accounts appertaining to the investigation and to cause the deposition of
witnesses, residing within or without the state, to be taken in the manner
prescribed by law for like depositions in civil actions in the courts of this
state. The oaths administered and subpoenas issued shall have the same force
and effect as the oaths administered by a District Judge in a judicial capacity
and subpoenas issued by the District Courts of Nebraska. The failure of any
person so subpoenaed to comply shall be deemed a violation of the Civil Service
Act and shall be punishable as such. No investigation shall be made pursuant to
this division (E) if there is a written accusation concerning the same subject
matter against a person in the civil service. Such accusation shall be handled
pursuant to §
37.13.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(5))
   (F)   The Commission shall provide that all hearings and investigations
before the Commission, designated Commissioner or Chief Examiner shall be
governed by the Civil Service Act and the rules of practice and procedure to be
adopted by the Commission. In the conduct thereof, they shall not be bound by
the technical rules of evidence. No informality in any proceedings or hearing
or in the manner of taking testimony shall invalidate any order, decision, rule
or regulation made, approved or confirmed by the Commission, except that no
order, decision, rule or regulation made by any designated Commissioner
conducting any hearing or investigation alone shall be of any force or effect
unless it is concurred in by a majority of the appointed members of the
Commission, including the vote of any Commissioner making the investigation.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(6))
   (G)   The Commission shall establish and maintain a roster of officers and
employees.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(7))
   (H)   The Commission shall provide for, establish, and hold competitive
tests to determine the relative qualifications of persons who seek employment
in any position and, as a result thereof, establish eligible lists for the
various positions.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(8))
   (I)   The Commission shall make recommendations concerning a reduction in
force policy to the Mayor and Council.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(9))
   (J)   The Commission shall keep such records as may be necessary for the
proper administration of the Civil Service Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1830(11))
   (K)   The Commission, upon request of the City Administrator, shall
establish and maintain a list of names and addresses, for a period of time
established by the City Administrator, of those eligible for appointment to or
promotion within the Department. Such list shall be established and maintained
through the open competitive examinations required in §
37.09, with the time and date of any examination to be established by the City
Administrator. Any person having satisfactorily passed the examination for any
position shall be placed on the list of those eligible for appointment or
promotion to such position.
(Neb. RS 19-1835(2))
   (L)   The Commission, upon request of the City Administrator, shall certify
the name of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list,
following the most recent examination, and whose qualifications have been
validated by the Commission for a vacant position.
(Neb. RS 19-1835(3) part)
   (M)   The Commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may be
necessary for the proper enforcement of the Civil Service Act and the rules of
the Commission. The Commission shall be represented in such suits and all
investigations pursuant to the Act by the City Attorney, unless the Mayor
determines special counsel is necessary. If the Mayor determines special
counsel is necessary, the Commission may be represented by special counsel
appointed by it in any particular case.
(Neb. RS 19-1839) (‘79 Code, § 14-210) (Ord. 395, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord.
411, passed 4-16-86; Am. Ord. 561, passed 5-4-93; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 1-16-
07)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage Disposal
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection; authority; notice; removal; nuisance; collection; lien
   
50.03   Garbage, trash, and waste
   
50.04   Dumping illegal
   
50.05   Hauler permit and requirements
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed or decayable vegetable, fish or animal
substance, any substance that may constitute or create a food source for
rodents or vermin or any substance that may decompose and become offensive or
injurious to the public health.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the city.
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
('79 Code, §§ 4-201, 4-202, 4-203) (Am. Ord. 367, passed 1-2-85)
§ 50.02 COLLECTION; AUTHORITY; NOTICE; REMOVAL; NUISANCE; COLLECTION; LIEN.
   (A)   The city may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads or alleys abutting
such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city may require the
owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of such lot or land to remove the
garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. Such
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing such notice, the city, through its proper offices, shall, in addition
to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse
upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public
health and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to
be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by the personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with this
section if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this chapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
such lot or land.
('79 Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 469, passed 10-18-88)
§ 50.03 GARBAGE, TRASH, AND WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the city, garbage or
rubbish of any kind that may be injurious to the public health or offensive to
the residents of the city unless the same is kept in tightly closed impermeable
receptacles. However, garbage and rubbish may also be disposed of in properly
tied plastic bags, provided that such bags are not located outside of an
enclosed building and are not placed curbside more than 24 hours before pickup.
   (B)   The Board of Health may order the removal of garbage and rubbish that
it determines to be a threat to public safety, and the owner or occupant shall
comply with such order within 24 hours of notification, it being unlawful to
fail to so comply.
   (C)   Except as permitted by division (D) of this section, garbage cans,
garbage can holders, plastic bags or other refuse containers may not be located
in the front yard or within any required front yard setback of residential
lots, except for temporary placement curbside, not more than 24 hours before
pickup. As used herein, "front yard setback" shall, in the case of a corner
lot, include both yards facing a street.
   (D)   Two tightly closed, impermeable garbage receptacles may be kept in the
front yard within three feet of the exterior wall of the home.
   (E)   All owners or occupants shall have the contents of all garbage
receptacles removed from the premises at their own cost at least once a week,
and it shall be unlawful to fail to do so.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to place, throw or sweep into the streets,
alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass,
garbage, waste, rubbish or refuse of any kind.
   (G)   Refuse containers for all business establishments and multi-family
housing complexes containing five or more housing units shall be enclosed on
three sides with a minimum six foot fence. Home occupations are exempt from the
aforesaid fencing requirements. The requirement for fencing around refuse
containers may be waived by the City Inspector upon the submission of an
alternative and acceptable refuse disposal plan, satisfying aesthetic, sanitary
and safety concerns, proposed by the business or multi-family housing complex
owner(s). Waivers shall be allowed only in accordance with sanitation
regulations as established and on file at the La Vista City Hall.
(Neb. RS 19-2106) ('79 Code, § 4-204) (Am. Ord. 444, passed 7-7-87; Am. Ord.
575, passed 9-7-93; Am. Ord. 601, passed 11-15-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DUMPING ILLEGAL.
   From henceforth, it shall be illegal for any person, persons or corporations
to dump garbage, refuse, tin cans, other food receptacles or papers anywhere
within the limits of the city of La Vista, other than for purposes of pickup
and hauled away by the regularly authorized person, persons or corporations
hired for such purpose.
('79 Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 HAULER PERMIT AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash. or
rubbish in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk to
engage in such business. The fee for such permit shall be an amount set from
time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of which shall be
maintained by the City Clerk. Should a permit not be issued, such fee shall be
returned to the applicant. Each vehicle shall constitute a separate application
and permit.
   (B)   All applicants for permits to be issued under this section shall file
with the City Clerk a schedule of rates proposed to be charged for such
services and shall charge for such services in accordance therewith. All
provisions and regulations of this section shall be complied with before such
permit shall be issued.
   (C)   Application for permits shall be filed with the City Clerk together
with the necessary requirements as provided for in this section. The City Clerk
shall immediately notify the Public Works Director for purposes of inspecting
the applicant's equipment. Upon approval by the Public Works Director, and no
permit shall be issued without such approval, the City Clerk shall examine the
application and, if in his or her determination all the requirements provided
by this section are met, shall issue such permit.
   (D)   Such permit shall be enforced from the date of issuance until the
following December 31, provided that if at any time after the issuance thereof
the City Clerk shall determine that the permittee can no longer fulfill the
requirements of this section or is violating the same or is hauling garbage,
trash, refuse or rubbish in such a manner as to constitute a menace to health,
such permit shall be revoked.
   (E)   All persons, firms, or corporations applying for permits to engage in
the business of collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or
rubbish shall provide satisfactory proof that they own or have continued access
and dumping rights to licensed dumping sites or facilities as hereinafter
required for the deposit therein of matter collected, transported or hauled.
All refuse or matter which consists in whole or in part of garbage shall be
disposed of only in a licensed landfill site or legal incinerator site. Refuse
or matter which contains no garbage shall be disposed of in a licensed landfill
site or legal incinerator site. As used herein, the terms "licensed" and
"legal" shall mean fully approved by, and at all times operated in accordance
with the applicable rules and regulations of the Health Department of the state
of Nebraska and/or the Department of Environmental Quality of the state of
Nebraska and of the county or other political subdivision having jurisdiction
over the facility or site.
   (F)   Before any person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish, they
shall submit the equipment proposed to be used to collect, haul or transport
garbage, trash or rubbish for inspection by the Public Works Director. Any
vehicular equipment used for the transporting of garbage, trash, refuse or
rubbish over the streets, avenues or alleys in the city of La Vista, shall have
attached thereto a metal body of the totally enclosed watertight sanitary
refuse collection type. The floor shall be of such pitch and shall so meet the
sides and front so as to prevent the leakage and dripping of liquids. The body
shall be maintained clean and odor free.
   (G)   Before any person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish in the
city, they shall, in writing, guarantee the city that they will, on a quarterly
basis, provide a written summary of the volume of all waste collected, disposed
of and/or recycled from the city of La Vista. A written summary shall be
provided to the city for each calendar quarter commencing with the fourth
quarter of 1993 and shall be due on the fifteenth day of the following month.
The waste disposed of and/or recycled shall be measured and reported to the
city by the cubic yard, by tonnage or such other method of measurement as the
city shall direct.
   (H)   Upon issuance of a permit, such person, firm or corporation shall post
with the city a performance bond in the amount of $25,000.
('79 Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 42, passed - -; Am. Ord. 367, passed 1-2-85; Am. Ord.
576, passed 10-20-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Operation and funding of Sewer Department
   
51.003   Contract authority
   
51.004   Maintenance
   
51.005   Testing sewer service user
Rates and Charges
   
51.015   Rates
   
51.016   Connection fees
   
51.017   Sewer Fund
   
51.018   Classification of sewer service users and determination of abnormal
charges
   
51.019   Payment and collection of sewer use fees
   
51.020   Special rates
Public Sewers Required
   
51.030   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
51.031   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
51.032   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
51.033   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.045   When applicable
   
51.046   Permit required; fee
   
51.047   Permit; when effective, inspections
   
51.048   Specifications
   
51.049   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
51.060   Permit required
   
51.061   Application; issuance
   
51.062   Inspection charges established for installation
   
51.063   Procedures, specifications and codes
   
51.064   Performance bond
   
51.065   Single premises
   
51.066   Use of existing sewers
   
51.067   Unlawful connection
   
51.068   Inspections
   
51.069   Excavations
   
51.070   Appeals, hearing
Requirements and Prohibitions
   
51.080   Repairs and replacement
   
51.081   Meters required; when
   
51.082   Prohibited discharges; storm water, surface water, ground water,
cooling water, and process water
   
51.083   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; flammable, toxic, corrosive and
obstructive substances; preliminary treatment
   
51.084   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; specific prohibitions as
determined by Inspector
   
51.085   Discharge of hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection,
pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
51.086   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors; when required
   
51.087   Preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
51.088   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required, installation,
maintenance and method
   
51.089   Storm sewer and sanitary sewer supply system
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.100   Inspections generally
   
51.101   City powers
   
51.102   Distortion in use fee caused by unusual water conditions; refund
   
51.103   Distortion of water usage in residential households; adjustment of
sewer bill, average computation based thereon
 
   
51.998   Violations; notice and liability
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABNORMAL BOD. The BOD content of the sewage in excess of 240 parts per
million.
   ABNORMAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS AND GREASE. The sum of the suspended solids
content of the sewage in excess of 300 parts per million and the grease content
in excess of 100 parts per million.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight or in milligrams
per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENT. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976, 42 USC 6901 et seq.; the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, 42 USC 9601 et seq.; the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 10 USC 2701 et seq.; the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, 33 USC 1251 et seq.; the Clean Water Act
of 1977, 33 USC 1251 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 USC 2601 et
seq.; and the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 USC 201 and 300ff et seq., as any are
amended from time to time, and any other applicable federal, state, or local
law, rule, regulation, or order from regulating the installation, use,
generation, manufacture, treatment, handling, refining, production, processing,
storage, disposal, discharge, emission, transportation, release, location, or
cleanup of any HAZARDOUS MATERIALS or the liability or responsibility of any
individual or entity for or with respect to any of the foregoing.
   GREASE. The fatty acids, soaps, fats, waxes and oils which are recoverable
by n-hexane extraction expressed in parts per million by weight.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. All flammable, explosive, asbestos-containing, or
radioactive materials or substances; hazardous wastes, toxic substances, or
related injurious materials or substances, whether injurious by themselves or
in combination with other materials or substances; polychlorinated biphenyls;
chemicals known to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity; petroleum or
petroleum-based products, distillates, or fractions; substances, the presence
of which on any property is prohibited by any GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENT; and
substances for which any GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENT requires a permit or special
handling in its use, collection, storage, treatment, or disposal. HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS shall include but not be limited to hazardous wastes, hazardous
substances, hazardous materials, toxic wastes, toxic materials, and toxic
substances, as defined by any GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENT.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city, or his or her authorized
agent or representative.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property not classified as residential property
in the definition for "residential property" which term, NONRESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY, shall include, by way of specification and not by way of limitation,
commercial and industrial property.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than an inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  Any property upon which any structure constructed or
to be constructed is used or is to be used primarily as a place or places of
abode. In any structure which is used for multiple family dwelling, each family
or living unit with private bath facilities shall be considered a separate and
distinct residential property for purposes of computing the connection fee
provided for in this chapter. In any situation where a trailer house or
separate dwelling is connected with others as a single tap or connection to the
city sewerage system, each individual trailer house or separate dwelling will
be considered to be a separate and distinct residential property.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. That system of sanitary sewer and outfall sewers owned by
the city. In situations where the sewer hookup or connection for any property
is with a sewer or system of sewers not owned by the city but which sewer or
system of sewers flow into or through any portion of the sewer system of the
city, then such shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to be a use
of the sewer system of the city of La Vista to the same extent as though the
connection or hookup for said property were made directly into the sewer system
of the city.
   SEWER SERVICE USER. Any owner, possessor, tenant, occupier, inhabitant,
holder or person using premises, property or structures of every kind, nature
and description, which have water service from any supply source and are
connected directly or indirectly with the sewage system of the city.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed storm sewer). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids and are removable by filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
('79 Code, § 3-101)
§ 51.002 OPERATION AND FUNDING OF SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the sewer system through the Public Works
Director. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
operation, maintenance and repair (OM&R) of the city sewer system may establish
a user charge system based on actual use and revise the charges, if necessary,
to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R;
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall
be known as the Sewer Fund. The Public Works Director shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her office. The Public Works Director shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Department subject to the supervision and review of the City
Council.
('79 Code, § 3-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-667, 18-501, and 18-503
§ 51.003 CONTRACT AUTHORITY.
   The city of La Vista may, during such period or periods of time as it deems
appropriate, enter into a contract with the Metropolitan Utilities District for
the collection of all or any part of the sewer use fees accruing to the city
pursuant to this chapter from and after April 1, 1975.
('79 Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
§ 51.004 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of any premises connected to the city sewerage system or any sewer
connected to or draining into said system shall be responsible for maintaining
the entire connection line, from the sewer main to the building, in good
operating condition and repair, including any wyes, slants, risers and stubouts
that were utilized by said person in effecting his or her connection.
('79 Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 78, passed - -)
§ 51.005 TESTING SEWER SERVICE USER.
   Any sewer service user may employ a fully qualified, independent testing
laboratory to determine the abnormal BOD and abnormal suspended solids and
grease content of sewage delivered to the system for comparison with the
determinations made by the city. The results of the determinations made by the
independent testing laboratory, if different than those made by the city, shall
be accepted by the city provided the sampling and analysis is made in
accordance with the most recent edition of the Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water as prepared, approved and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation. The sewer service user
will notify the city in advance of its intention to sample its sewage. Samples
will be collected on a mutually agreed upon schedule and the value for each
parameter above normal, as herein defined, shall be the arithmetic average of
the values obtained from at least five 24 hour composite samples over a proven
reasonable plant production for such user.
('79 Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.015 RATES.
   (A)   Levy of sewer service charges. The following sewer service charges
shall be levied against the user of premises, property or structures of every
kind, nature and description, which have water service from any supply source
and are connected directly or indirectly with the sewerage system of the city.
   (B)   Computation of sewer service charges. For the months of December,
January, February and March, the monthly charge for residential sewer services
will be computed on the actual water used for these months. The monthly charge
for residential sewer service in the months of April, May, June, July, August,
September, October and November will be computed on the average water usage for
the four preceding winter months of December, January, February and March, or
for such portion of said consumption, whichever is the lesser. At the option of
the city, water used from private wells shall be either metered or estimated
for billing purposes.
   (C)   Amount of sewer service charges. The total sewer service charge for
each sewer service user will be the sum of following three charges: customer
charge, flow charge, and abnormal charge.
      (1)   (a)   For purposes of the customer charge, there shall be three
classifications:
            1.   Residential, the same being sewer service to a single-family
dwelling or a duplex, apartment, or other multi-family dwelling wherein the
water consumption for each dwelling is separately supplied, metered, and
charged for by the Metropolitan Utilities District.
            2.   Residential-Multi-Family, the same being sewer service to
multi-family dwellings wherein the water consumption in each dwelling is not
separately supplied, metered, and charged for by the Metropolitan Utilities
District; and
            3.   General Commercial: customers who normally use less than
100,000 cubic feet of water per month and who are not Residential users.
         (b)   The customer charges for each classification shall be set from
time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of which shall be
maintained by the City Clerk.
      (2)   The flow charge for all sewer service users shall be set from time
to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of which shall be
maintained by the City Clerk.
      (3)   If users other than those classified herein are connected to the
wastewater collection system, the customer charges, the flow charges and other
charges will be determined by the City Council in accordance with rules and
regulations of the EPA and the agreement between the city of La Vista and the
city of Omaha.
('79 Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 190, passed - -; Am. Ord. 418, passed 9-23-86; Am.
Ord. 579, passed 2-15-94; Am. Ord. 648, passed 5-7-96)
§ 51.016 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   A fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer for each structure or tract
to be connected to the sewer system of the city, the amount of which shall be
set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council and a current record of
which shall be maintained by the City Clerk. Connection fees shall be set by
the following classifications: Residential (single-family dwelling, duplexes,
and multiple-family (three or more units)) and Commercial (including
industrial). The connection fee for the Commercial (including industrial)
classification shall be computed on a per-acre basis within each platted lot or
tract, irrespective of the number of structures to be constructed thereon. No
connection permit or building permit shall be issued until the appropriate
connection fees have been paid.
   (B)   Changes in use. If the use of a lot changes subsequent to payment of
the fee, which different use would require payment of a fee greater than that
payable in respect to the use for which the fee was originally paid, the
difference in fee shall be paid to the city at the time of such change in use.
   (C)   Existing structures. Structures for which sewer connection and
building permits have been issued, and all permit fees in respect thereto paid,
prior to the effective date hereof, shall be exempt from the fees herein
imposed.
   (D)   Preconnection payments. Where preconnection payment charges for a
subdivision or portion thereof have been paid to the city at the time of
subdivision of a tract pursuant to agreement between the city, the developer
and the sanitary and improvement district, if any, financing improvements of
the subdivision, the preconnection payment so made shall be credited by the
city to the sewer/drainage fees payable at the time of connection of the
individual properties to the sewer/drainage systems of the city.
   (E)   Sewer tap and inspection and sewer service fees. The fees imposed by
division (A) of this section are in addition to and not in lieu of:
      (1)   Sewer tap and inspection fees payable pursuant to §
51.062 of this chapter and
      (2)   Sewer service charges imposed by §
51.015 of this chapter.
   (F)   Sarpy County Industrial Sewer. Properties directly connected to that
portion of the Sarpy County Industrial Sewer described as the "La Vista
Project" in the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Sarpy County and the
cities of the La Vista and Gretna dated February 20, 1996, as amended, shall be
subject to the terms of such agreement.
('79 Code, § 3-103.01) (Ord. 707, passed 11-4-97)
§ 51.017 SEWER FUND.
   (A)   Moneys collected from the sewer service charge established by this
chapter shall be deposited in a separate fund to be known as the "Sewer Revenue
Fund," and shall be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   To defray the cost of enlargement, extension and expansion of
sanitary sewers, outfall sewers, treatment plants and other facilities
comprising a part or parts of the sewerage system;
      (2)   For payment of principal and interest on bonds issued for the
purpose of constructing, equipping or operating the sanitary sewer system or
parts thereof owned by the city, including both those bonds which shall have
originally been issued by the city itself and those bonds issued by any
sanitary and improvement district or other public corporation organized under
Nebraska law and to whose obligations the city shall have succeeded by reason
of annexation, merger or otherwise;
      (3)   For payment of principal and interest on bonds issued for the
purposes provided in Neb. RS 18-502 or 18-506, or other authority pursuant to
which the city may issue sewer bonds.
      (4)   To defray any contract charges the city may from time to time incur
for sewerage transportation treatment and disposal.
      (5)   To pay the cost of administering the terms of this chapter.
      (6)   Such other purposes as may be authorized by law.
   (B)   The operation, maintenance and repair (OM&R) Portion of the total
sewer user charges shall be deposited in a nonlapsing Sewer Fund, or set of
funds, and the revenues so deposited will be used only for the purposes of
defraying the OM&R costs of the treatment works. Funds transferred from other
revenue sources to meet temporary shortages in the OM&R accounts shall be
refunded following an appropriate adjustment in the user charges for OM&R. The
Sewer Fund will have a minimum of two primary accounts: an O&M account with
provision for carry-over of the fiscal year end balance to meet the overall O&M
costs in the subsequent fiscal year.
('79 Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 140, passed - -)
§ 51.018 CLASSIFICATION OF SEWER SERVICE USERS AND DETERMINATION OF ABNORMAL
CHARGES.
   For the purpose of applying the abnormal charge called for in §
51.015 of this chapter, the city shall classify all sewer service users
according to the more recent edition of the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual prepared by the Federal Office of Management and Budget. The city shall
then sample wastes from a sample of the sewer service users in each Standard
Industrial Classification and from this determine the abnormal BOD and abnormal
suspended solids and grease for all users in each classification.
('79 Code, § 3-105) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
§ 51.019 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   (A)   All sewer service charges provided for by this subchapter shall be
billed and collected as specified and provided in the contract by and between
the city of La Vista and the Metropolitan Utilities District authorized herein.
   (B)   Any sewer charge not paid within 30 days after the bill date specified
on the sewer service charge bill or statement shall be delinquent. In addition
to the remedies provided by law and particularly Neb. RS 18-503, and any
amendment, modification or revision thereof, any sewer service charge which
shall be charged for service on or after April 1, 1975, and is unpaid 30 days
after the same shall become delinquent shall be a gross billing sewer service
charge bearing an additional charge (to apply to the city's added costs) of $5
dollars per billing or statement and said service charge shall bear interest at
the rate of 14% per annum from date the same shall become delinquent, and said
delinquent sewer service charge, together with the $5 dollar gross bill sewer
service charge and interest shall be a lien upon the property serviced; and
said delinquent sewer service charge and additions as aforesaid shall be levied
and assessed against the premises serviced in the same manner prescribed by law
for the assessment and levy of special taxes and assessments and shall be
collected and returned in the same manner as other city taxes and assessments
are certified, assessed, collected and returned or may be recovered by the city
in a civil action. In addition, water service may be discontinued in the event
a sewer service charge becomes delinquent and remains unpaid for 30 days after
the same shall become delinquent. Any order to discontinue water service by
reason of delinquent sewer service charges shall be issued by the City
Administrator to the Metropolitan Utilities District in accordance with
applicable law and subject to prior approval of the City Council. These
remedies shall not be mutually exclusive, but shall be cumulative.
('79 Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 190, passed - -; Am. Ord. 307, passed 5-4-82)
§ 51.020 SPECIAL RATES.
   Whenever by reason of special conditions the application of the rates
specified in §
51.015 of this subchapter would be inequitable or unfair to either the city or
the user, or in cases where the character of the sewage from sewer service
users is such that an additional burden is placed upon the sewerage system
greater than that imposed by the average sewage delivered to the system, the
Public Works Director shall recommend special rates which are equitable and
fair to all parties concerned and, when approved by resolution of the City
Council, such special rates shall control. When special rates are requested to
allow for in-plant use of water which does not go to the sewer system, it shall
be mandatory that a sewage meter or separate water meter be installed whenever
reasonably possible and in all other instances, the burden shall be upon the
user requesting such special rate to prove said in-plant usage.
('79 Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement (excepting that of a trained guide dog used by a person because of a
visual or other physical impairment), garbage, hazardous material, or other
objectionable waste.
('79 Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage within the city or in any platted
subdivision within the jurisdiction of said city.
('79 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so. No private sewer systems shall be permitted within
the city or any platted subdivision within the jurisdiction of the city unless
in the determination of the Inspector there is no public sewer available; in
which event, the Inspector may issue a permit for a private sewage disposal
system in the manner provided hereafter.
('79 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.045 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.033, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
51.033, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
('79 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Inspector. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Inspector. A permit and inspection
fee shall be set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current
record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
('79 Code, § 3-116)
§ 51.047 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE, INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Inspector. He or
she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Inspector when the
work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Public Works Director.
('79 Code, § 3-117)
§ 51.048 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Environmental
Quality of the state of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the
area of the lot is less than that prescribed by the applicable provisions of
the Plumbing Code. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
('79 Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
51.045 through
51.049 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Inspector.
('79 Code, § 3-119)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 51.060 PUBLIC REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Inspector.
('79 Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any building or
premises to the city sewerage system or to any sanitary sewer or system of
sanitary sewers connected to or draining into said city sewerage system, or to
make any extensions or alterations of any existing sewer connections in said
city sewerage system, any sanitary sewer or system of sanitary sewers connected
to or draining into said city sewerage system, unless he or she shall have
first obtained from the City Clerk a permit to do so and shall have paid the
connection fee therefor as hereinafter provided. Such permit, when issued,
shall state the name of the owner of the property to be connected, the legal
description of such property, the name of the contractor or other person
employed to make such connection and, if known, the location of the wye,
stubout, riser, slant or other existing apparatus to be utilized.
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit shall file an application with the City
Clerk and said application to be on forms furnished by the City Clerk and to be
accompanied by a sketch drawn to scale of not less than one inch to 200 feet
showing:
      (1)   Location of the property to be served and the location of buildings
constructed or to be constructed thereon.
      (2)   The location of the existing sewer main or lateral to be utilized.
      (3)   The location of the proposed service line and point of connection
with the city sewerage system.
      (4)   The type and location of existing sewer apparatus to be utilized,
for example, wye, stubout, riser, slant and the like.
   (C)   If the connection is for nonresidential property, the application
shall also set forth the type of business to be connected, the diameter of the
sewer service line, the type of sewerage and estimated daily volume of liquids
that will flow through said connection.
   (D)   Where the permit applied for is for a residential connection, the City
Clerk may issue said permit, provided:
      (1)   The City Clerk determines that the person to make the connection is
a qualified person within the meaning of §
51.063 of this chapter.
      (2)   That the appropriate connection fee has been paid.
      (3)   That the appropriate performance bond has been posted as required
by §
51.064 of this chapter.
   (E)   Permits for connections for commercial and industrial use shall in all
events be approved by the City Engineer.
('79 Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 78, passed - -)
§ 51.062 INSPECTION CHARGES ESTABLISHED FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   There are hereby established the following inspection charges for
connection to the city sewage system.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of §
51.064 hereof, the sewer inspection charges for nonresidential property shall
be set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of
which shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (C)   In those cases where, as may be determined by the City Building
Inspector, the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and/or hydraulic flow of
effluence from the premises exceeds normal usage and/or the capacity of
existing sewer treatment facilities, approval for a connection of such sewer
lines must be obtained from the City Council. Sewer connection fees, which
include the cost of any necessary additions to the existing sewer system, will
be set by the City Council at the time of approval.
('79 Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 191, passed - -; Am. Ord. 280, passed 12-16-80; Am.
Ord. 425, passed 11-3-86)
§ 51.063 PROCEDURES, SPECIFICATION AND CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. No water
connection pipes shall be laid in the same trench with sewer connection or
drain pipe. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Inspector before installation.
   (D)   No person other than a person to whom a master plumber's or sewer
layer's permit has been issued by the city of La Vista or the city of Omaha,
Nebraska, shall be entitled to a permit to make any sewer connection to the
city sewerage system or to any sanitary sewer connected to or flowing into said
system.
('79 Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 78, passed - -, Ord. 190, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.064 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   In those cases where the sewer connection is to be made to an existing wye,
riser, slant or stubout, without in any way disturbing or cutting into the
sewer main in the street, and no excavation under pavement is required, then
the person applying for the permit need not post any bond as security for his
or her faithful performance of the provisions of this chapter. In all cases
where the sewer main will be cut or otherwise disturbed in any respect, or if
there will be an excavation under any part of the pavement of the street, then
the person applying for the permit shall first obtain an occupation license and
comply with all provisions of said licensing procedure to include any bonding
requirements, conditioned upon the person's making the connection in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter and in accordance with the sewer connection
specifications of the city as approved by the City Council of the city of La
Vista. The permit holder shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.
('79 Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 78, passed - -; Ord. 199, passed - -)
§ 51.065 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where the building has been constructed for the sole purpose
of storage and not in compliance with the standards for a habitable residential
dwelling and except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
('79 Code, § 3-125)
§ 51.066 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 3-126) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is
approved by the Inspector for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
('79 Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Inspector or his or her representative.
   (B)   The entire connection of the main sewer in the street to the building
shall be inspected before any part of it is covered, and a certificate
approving the work shall be issued by the Inspector of the city if he or she
finds same to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and the
sewer connection specifications of the city. Failure to obtain such inspection
and certificate shall be deemed sufficient cause for the uncovering and removal
of the entire sewer connection line. The permittee shall notify the Inspector
when his or her work is ready for inspection, and the Inspector shall, within
eight hours thereafter, make the necessary inspection. The Inspector shall
immediately revoke all permits where the work is not being performed in strict
conformity with the provisions of this chapter or is being performed in
violation of any other section of this code.
('79 Code, § 3-128)
§ 51.069 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
('79 Code, § 3-129) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 APPEALS, HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance or denial by the City Clerk or by the
cancellation by the City Inspector of any permit herein above provided for may
appeal from such issuance, denial, or cancellation, to the City Council, by
filing with the City Clerk a notice of appeal and payment to the Clerk of a
fee, the amount of which shall be set from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council, a current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk and
which the City Clerk shall pay to the General Fund of the city. The Clerk, at
least five days prior thereto, shall notify the appealing party of the date his
or her appeal is to be heard. At such hearing, the City Council shall rehear
the application, make such investigation and hear such witnesses they determine
necessary and make a final determination in the matter.
('79 Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 78, passed - -)
REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.080 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The City Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the city and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair or
replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is broken,
clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner's
duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those portions
upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or easements
up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Public Works
Director may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by such connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) ('79 Code, § 3-147) (Ord. 376, passed 1-15-85) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 METERS REQUIRED; WHEN.
   Whenever a sewer service user obtains all or a part of its water service
from any source other than the Metropolitan Utilities District (M.U.D.), it
shall report the name and address of such privately-owned and operated supply
source to the city and shall, at its own cost and expense, provide meter
facilities satisfactory to the city for determining the volume of water
obtained from such privately-owned and operated supply source, so that based
thereon, the proper sewer service charge may be so that based thereon, the
proper sewer service charge may be levied in accordance with §
51.015 of this chapter, provided, however, that sewer service users may, at
their option and expense and with the approval of the city, install sewage
meters to measure all sewage discharged into the sanitary, combination, or
storm sewers. The rates specified in §
51.015 of this chapter shall apply equally to sewage meters.
('79 Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 190, passed - -)
§ 51.082 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUND WATER,
COOLING WATER, AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Inspector. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Inspector, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The contributor of any
identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary sewer system shall be
held responsible for reimbursing the city for such costs. The costs shall be
determined by the Inspector with the approval of the City Council.
('79 Code, § 3-132) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.083 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, engine oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including, but not
limited to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes discharged to the
public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight or,
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids, or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage
flow of the city, or
      (4)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the city's consulting engineer shall be subject to the review of
the Inspector.
   (F)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Inspector, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes, or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (G)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Inspector, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   (H)   No paint of any type can be placed in the storm sewer systems.
('79 Code, § 3-133) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.084 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Inspector that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Inspector will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C).
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0° and
65°C).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Inspector.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Inspector for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Inspector as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Inspector in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
('79 Code, § 3-134) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.085 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.084, and which, in the judgment of the Inspector, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which
otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Inspector may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes,
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers,
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.020.
   (B)   If the Inspector permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Inspector and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
('79 Code, § 3-135)
§ 51.086 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Inspector and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
('79 Code, § 3-136) Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.087 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OF FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
('79 Code, § 3-137)
§ 51.088 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED, INSTALLATION,
MAINTENANCE AND METHOD.
   (A)   When required by the Inspector, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Inspector. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
('79 Code, § 3-138)
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
('79 Code, § 3-139) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 STORM SEWER AND SANITARY SEWER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the storm water or wastewater facilities. Any person
or persons violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct.
('79 Code, § 3-140) Penalty, see §
51.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.100 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing the
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
('79 Code, § 3-141)
§ 51.101 CITY POWERS.
   The city has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovery charge and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the city limits.
('79 Code, § 3-144)
§ 51.102 DISTORTION IN USE FEE CAUSED BY UNUSUAL WATER CONDITIONS; REFUND.
   (A)   In the event the City Council shall determine: (a) that in a
particular winter, one or more of the four months designated by §
51.015 as the months used in determining average monthly water consumption for
the purposes of computing user charges were both abnormally dry and warm; and
(b) that as a result thereof, residents watered their lawns and/or shrubberies
during such four month period to a considerably greater extent than normal for
the corresponding four month period in prior years, then, in such event, the
City Council may by resolution provide for an adjustment and/or refund of all
or part of the sewer use fee charges attributable to water consumption
reasonably estimated to be attributable to abnormal lawn watering during such
four month period, both as to the four month period itself, as well as to the
ensuing eight month period for which the four month base period constitutes the
assumed water usage for sewer use fee purposes.
   (B)   The Council shall establish appropriate procedures by which payers of
sewer use fees may prove abnormal watering of lawns and/or shrubberies due to
such unusual winter climatic conditions. Such procedure shall be the exclusive
method of obtaining an adjustment or refund by reasons of abnormal winter usage
and shall be applicable only in respect to usage during those months during
which the City Council shall have determined the requisite conditions existed.
Claims for refund made in accordance with said procedures and satisfactorily
proven may be paid as a refund or be adjusted as a credit against future sewer
use fee charges as the City Council shall determine. All refunds and
adjustments shall be approved by the City Administrator. All refunds shall be
charged to the Sewer Revenue Fund.
('79 Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 281, passed 3-17-81)
§ 51.103 DISTORTION OF WATER USAGE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLDS; ADJUSTMENT OF
SEWER BILL, AVERAGE COMPUTATION BASED THEREON.
   (A)   In the event that a citizen shall lodge a complaint with the city
pertaining to the amount of measured water usage for their residence during any
of the months of December through March inclusive; and if such citizen shall
allege that the amount of water usage is significantly in excess of the
customary amount of water usage for the same month from the prior year; and
furthermore, if said citizen shall charge that such excess of customary usage
is due to circumstances not covered in §
51.102 of the city code; the office of the City Administrator shall have the
authority to investigate the complaint and to determine to the satisfaction of
the City Administrator's office the justness of the citizens complaint.
   (B)   If the office of the City Administrator shall determine that the cause
of the significant excess of customary usage is reasonably beyond the control
of the property owner or resident, the office of the City Administrator shall
have the authority to notify the Metropolitan Utilities District of the problem
and to direct them to use the same month or months reading for the month or
months disputed, from the immediate prior year in the computing of the citizens
average sewer bill for the remaining eight months of the billing year.
   (C)   In no event shall a citizen seeking an adjustment of their water bill,
under this section, be granted a credit or any other form of refund on the
billing of the disputed month or months.
('79 Code, § 3-146) (Ord. 302, passed 4-20-82)
§ 51.998 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.089, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
   (C)   If the Mayor or City Administrator determines that any violation of
this chapter presents an immediate risk of serious harm to persons, property,
or the environment, the city may take immediate, reasonable measures to attempt
to reduce or abate the risk, including but not limited to entering upon any lot
or land or into any building or structure thereon, provided, however, that, in
the event there is no immediate risk of serious harm, the city shall proceed in
accordance with division (A) above.
('79 Code, § 3-142) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
in §
51.998(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation, or imprisoned for
any length of time not to exceed 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the
court. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
('79 Code, § 3-143) (Ord. 199, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: NATURAL GAS
Section
Gas Rate Increase Procedure
   
52.01   Regulatory authority
   
52.02   Rate schedules
   
52.03   Refund
   
52.04   Other rate changes
   
52.05   Information to be provided
   
52.06   Notice of application
   
52.07   Providing of general information
   
52.08   Validity of rate increase procedure
GAS RATE INCREASE PROCEDURE
§ 52.01 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   A franchisee shall at all times be subject to:
   (A)   All rights, powers, and authority now or hereafter possessed by the
city to regulate, control, and direct the rates and tariffs charged for natural
gas service in the city;
   (B)   The Municipal Gas Regulation Act, Neb. RS 19-4601 et seq., and any
other applicable laws, rules, or regulations, as amended from time to time; and
   (C)   Any validly executed franchise agreement between the city and the
franchisee not inconsistent with divisions (A) or (B).
('79 Code, § 10-1001)
Cross-reference:
   Franchise granting to People's Natural Gas, the right, permission, and
authority to lay, maintain, and operate a gas transmission and distribution
system within the city, see Ord. 651, passed 6-4-96, as listed in the
Table of Special Ordinances
§ 52.02 RATE SCHEDULES.
   The franchisee shall provide to the city, for informational purposes, copies
of all rate schedules and contracts for all rates charged and the requirements
for service under such schedule within the city. They should also show
separately the base rate and the Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) rate. The base
rate shall exclude all gas supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments. Gas
supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments shall be collected solely through
the PGA rate.
('79 Code, § 10-1002)
§ 52.03 REFUND.
   Any refund, including interest thereon, if any, received by the franchisee
from its supplier related to increased rates paid by the franchisee subject to
refund and applicable to natural gas purchased for resale within the city shall
be passed on to presently served customers by an appropriate adjustment shown
as a credit on subsequent bills during a period selected by the franchisee, not
to exceed 12 months, or by a cash refund at the franchisee's option or by such
other method as may be established by ordinance.
('79 Code, § 10-1003)
§ 52.04 OTHER RATE CHANGES.
   (A)   In the event the franchisee desires to change its rates for natural
gas service within the city other than to reflect an adjustment for the cost of
purchased gas, the franchisee will present to the city copies of present and
proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed rates to be
charged for natural gas service within the city. The rate schedules and
information submitted with the rate schedules shall be referred to as the rate
filing. Any such rate filing shall be deemed filed upon receipt of the same by
the City Clerk. A filing fee in the amount of $1,000 dollars shall be paid to
the city with the rate filing. Such fee will be considered as an operating cost
of the franchisee and shall not be separately itemized on any customer
billings.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to select and engage rate
consultants, accountants, auditors, attorneys, engineers and other experts as
deemed necessarily desirable to advise and represent the City Council in
evaluating any proposed rate change. The franchisee shall reimburse the city
within 90 days of the presentation of the bill by the city for the reasonable
costs of those services only to the extent that said costs exceed the filing
fee for the rate filing.
   (C)   (1)   The rates proposed to be changed for noncontract firm natural
gas service within the city shall be based upon the utility's cost of providing
service to the city or the representative costs in that part of the utility's
service area which includes the city. The period for which the cost of service
is to be recognized is to be a projected 12 month period commencing not later
than the proposed effective date of the increase.
      (2)   The cost of service shall be determined in a manner consistent with
regulated public utility practices and shall include:
         (a)   Appropriate costs as defined and set forth in the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Uniform System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural Gas
Companies FERC Accounts, and
         (b)   A reasonable return on the utility's rate base as determined by
the City Council.
   (D)   In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be
employed that is representative of the cost of debt, preferred stock and common
equity capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC Accounts), allowance for working capital
and such other items as may reasonably be included; less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capital.
   (E)   The franchisee's appropriate costs and items of rate base shall
include allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items, when such
allocations or apportionments are reasonably representative of assigned common
costs and arise from the manner in which the franchisee's operations are
conducted or from an avoidance of excessive and costly financial record
keeping.
   (F)   Rate filings, not including changes reflecting the cost of gas, shall
be limited to a maximum of one in any 12 calendar month period. Proposed rate
increases, other than increases in pass-through gas supply costs, shall not
take effect until the proposed rate increase has been approved or finally
determined.
('79 Code, § 10-1004)
§ 52.05 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide, in its rate filing, six copies of the
most recent annual report to the stockholders and the completed and signed
copies of the "Summary of Proposed Rate Change" sheets.
   (B)   In addition, six copies of the following information shall be provided
by the franchisee, verified by a statement under oath by an officer of the
utility:
      (1)   A description of the base year and test year.
      (2)   A financial summary showing aggregate amounts for rate base,
operating revenues, operating expenses, rate of return for the base year and
test year:
         (a)   Actual rates for the most recent calendar year preceding the
date of submission.
         (b)   For the projected 12 month period using natural gas rates
currently in effect.
         (c)   For the projected 12 month period using the proposed natural gas
rates.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-4613(2), rate-base schedules
showing beginning and ending balances for the base year and test year of:
         (a)   Utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components showing the balances by functional account totals;
         (b)   Working capital showing the manner in which the components are
calculated.
         (c)   Other rate base components; and
         (d)   Allocated rate-base components showing the manner in which the
components are calculated.
      (3)   Operating expense schedules for the base year and test year,
showing:
         (a)   Expenses by FERC accounts for the most recent calendar year
including filing fees and occupation taxes paid to the city.
         (b)   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in
subdivision (B)(3)(a).
         (c)   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
12-month period.
         (d)   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses.
         (e)   Explanations and calculation of allocated amounts included in
subdivision (B)(3)(c).
      (4)   Rate of return and cost of capital schedules showing long-term
debt, preferred stock and common equity amounts, ratios, and percentage cost
rates for the base year and test year, and long-term debt, preferred stock, and
common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the base year and test year.
      (5)   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
         (a)   Number and classification of customers, volume of sales, and
operating revenue by customer classes for the base year on an unadjusted basis;
and
         (b)   Number and classification of customers, volume of sales, and
operating revenue by customer classes for the test year on a normalized basis:
            1.   Using current rates; and
            2.   Using proposed rates.
(Neb. RS 19-4610)
      (6)   Informational schedules showing for the city as a whole:
         (a)   Cost of utility plant.
         (b)   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes.
      (7)   Grantee shall clearly designate as part of its expenses all
expenditures for charitable or civic contributions, for business gifts and
entertainment, institutional, consumption inducing, and other advertising or
public relations expenses and legislative-advocacy expenses. The city may not
allow its costs or expenses for rate making purposes any of these expenditures
which the city determines not to be in the public interest. The franchisee has
the burden of showing these expenses are in the public interest.
      (8)   Such additional information as city may request.
(Neb. RS 19-4610) ('79 Code, § 10-1005)
§ 52.06 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not make changes in its rates except by filing a
rate filing prescribed with the City Clerk at least 90 days prior to the
proposed effective date of the requested change. Notice of the filing shall be
given by publication by placing a notice to the public of the proposed change
in a newspaper having general circulation in the city. However, notwithstanding
the above, instead of the publication of the newspaper notice contemplated
above, the franchisee may provide notice to the public by mailing such notice
by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of each directly
affected customer, or by including the notice in such customer's bill in a
conspicuous form. The notice must be in the following form:
   NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
      "The (name of the utility) proposes to increase your rates by (amount of
total annual increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase
of (percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year)
per cent and is an increase in base rates of (percentage of increase over all
revenues during the applicable test year which are not subject to escalation
through some form of automatic adjustment clause) per cent. Further information
may be obtained from (name and address of utility official) or the application
on file with the City Clerk."
   (B)   An affidavit signed by an official of the franchisee and describing
the method of publication of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
('79 Code, § 10-1006)
§ 52.07 PROVIDING OF GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The franchisee shall provide the city, at the request of the city, on a
regular, continuing basis, within 30 days of publication, copies of documents,
information and data listed below for the franchisee or its parent company as
applicable:
   (A)   Annual report to stockholders.
   (B)   Quarterly report to stockholders.
   (C)   Securities and exchange commission form 10-K, as the same may be
changed from time to time.
   (D)   Securities and exchange commission form 10-Q, as the same may be
changed from time to time.
   (E)   Prospectus for debt securities to be issued.
   (F)   Prospectus for equity securities to be issued.
   (G)   Distribution system map of the city.
('79 Code, § 10-1007)
§ 52.08 VALIDITY OF RATE INCREASE PROCEDURE.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this rate
increase procedure shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof.
('79 Code, § 10-1008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.000   General applicability
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Littering
   
70.003   Glass; pointed and other objects
   
70.004   Persons propelling push carts; riding bicycles and animals
Registration
   
70.020   Automobile registration
   
70.021   Operator’s license
Equipment; Loads
   
70.035   Child passenger restraint system
   
70.036   Safety belt required
   
70.037   Equipment and maintenance
   
70.038   Unobstructed view
   
70.039   Muffler or noise-suppressing system; prevention of fumes and smoke
   
70.040   Weight and size limits; permit
   
70.041   Tire specifications; permit
   
70.042   School bus qualifications
Accidents
   
70.055   Driver’s duty
   
70.056   Penalty
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.070   Placing and maintaining traffic control devices
   
70.071   Unauthorized display of signs
   
70.072   Signs, signals
   
70.073   Prior signs and regulations
   
70.074   Observance of traffic signs
   
70.075   Stop signs
   
70.076   Crosswalks
   
70.077   Defacing or interfering with signs
   
70.078   Automatic lights and signals
   
70.079   Automatic signal system
Citations
   
70.090   Definition
   
70.091   Form and records
   
70.092   Disposition and records
   
70.093   Illegal cancellation
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.105   Emergency regulations
   
70.106   Police enforcement
   
70.107   Refusal to obey police
   
70.108   Exemption of emerging vehicles
   
70.109   Unlawfully parked vehicle declared obstruction, misdemeanor and public
nuisance
   
70.110   Summary removal authorized
   
70.111   Abatement of parking violation
   
70.112   Towing of vehicles authorized
   
70.113   Payment of costs of removal and storage; proof of licensing and
registration
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.000 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this title shall apply in addition to, and to the extent
not inconsistent with, any applicable state statute, including but not limited
to the Nebraska Rules of the Road.
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise herein defined, the words and phrases used in this
title, pertaining to motor vehicles and traffic regulations, shall be construed
as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 6, as now existing or hereafter
amended. If not defined in the designated statutes, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Volunteer Fire Department,
vehicles of firefighters responding to an emergency when properly identified,
police vehicles and such ambulances or other emergency vehicles as are
designated or authorized by the City Council and such publicly owned military
vehicles of the National Guard as are designated by the Adjutant General
pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in the actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION or STREET INTERSECTION. The space occupied by two streets at
the point where they cross each other, bounded by the lot lines extended and
shall include the sidewalk space as well as the roadway.
   LOADING ZONE. A place designated by the City Council as a place for the
loading and unloading of freight, materials or merchandise and suitably marked
so as to indicate its use for such purpose.
   MUFFLER. A device consisting of a series of chamber or baffle plates, or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine, and effective in reducing noise.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS OR DEVICES. All signs, markings and devices, other
than mechanical or electrical signals, not inconsistent with this chapter,
placed or erected by authority of the City Council for the purpose of
directing, warning or regulating traffic.
   PASSENGER ZONE. A place designated by the City Council as a place for the
loading and unloading of passengers and suitably marked so as to indicate its
use for such purpose.
   POLICE OFFICER or TRAFFIC OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department of
the city or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make
arrests for the violation of traffic regulation.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines intended for pedestrian use.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, avenue
or way which is publicly maintained and open for public vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden animals and vehicles or other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street, alley or public way for
purposes of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676) (‘79 Code, § 5-101) (Am. Ord. 608, passed 1-17-
95; Am. Ord. 1091, passed 4-7-09)
§ 70.002 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
city highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the City Council,
any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty of
littering.
(‘79 Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Rubbish and the like on highways prohibited, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.003 GLASS; POINTED AND OTHER OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, or place, or cause to be deposited or place
upon any public property or right-of-way in the city any burning material or
substance, or any material or substance posing a risk or injury to any person
or animal, or risk of damage to any vehicle or other property, including but
not limited to any glass bottle, glass, nail, tack wire, or can. Any person
throwing, depositing, placing, or causing to be deposited or placed any burning
material or substance, or any material or substance posing a risk of injury to
any person or animal, or risk of damage to any vehicle or other property, shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed. In addition to and not
in limitation of the foregoing, any person who removes a wrecked or damaged
vehicle in the city shall remove any glass or other material or substance
posing risk of injury or damage deposited on public property or the right-of-
way from such vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 5-402) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Rubbish and the like on highways prohibited, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.004 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS; RIDING BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   Any person propelling push carts or riding bicycles, motorcycles, motor
scooters or animals, or driving any animal, upon the streets and public ways of
the city shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the
operator of any vehicle; provided that when any provision of this chapter shall
be contrary in force and effect to Chapter 73 with regard to the operation of
bicycles,
Chapter 73 shall be controlling.
(‘79 Code, § 5-436)
REGISTRATION
§ 70.020 AUTOMOBILE REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park a motor vehicle,
trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer on the streets of this city, unless such
motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer has been registered in
accordance with Nebraska law.
(‘79 Code, § 5-501) (Am. Ord. 610, passed 1-17-95; Am. Ord. 675, passed 7-1-97)
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on the
streets of the city unless they have procured an operator’s license from the
state of Nebraska, or from another state extending to the state of Nebraska
reciprocal privileges; to operate said motor vehicle unless the driver shall
have upon his or her person or in his or her car at the time of operating said
motor vehicle, said operator’s license; to operate a motor vehicle while such
license stands suspended or revoked; or to operate a motor vehicle other than
in accordance with any limitations or conditions to which such license is
subject by law or court order.
(‘79 Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
70.999
EQUIPMENT; LOADS
§ 70.035 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to
have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported in such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Safety
Administration as of January 1, 2006, and which is correctly installed in such
vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   This division (A) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (B)   Whenever any licensed physician determines through accepted medical
procedures that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular child
would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or other
medical reason, the provisions of division (A) of this section shall be waived.
The driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A) of this section when operating such authorized
emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267)
   (D)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (A) of this section if the motor vehicle is being operated in a
parade or exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in
accordance with applicable state law or local ordinances and resolutions.
   (E)   All persons being transported by a motor vehicle operated by the
holder of a provisional operator's permit or a school permit shall use such
motor vehicle's occupant protection system.
   (F)   Enforcement of divisions (A)(1)(b) and (E) in this section by state or
local law enforcement agencies shall be accomplished only as a secondary action
when a driver of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged with a violation or
some other offense, unless the violation involves a person under the age of 18
years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not designed or intended for
the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. See Neb. RS 60-6,268(2).
(‘79 Code, § 5-442) (Ord. 402, passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. 523, passed 3-5-91;
Am. Ord. 1032, passed 5-1-07) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.036 SAFETY BELT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No driver shall operate a motor vehicle upon any highway or
street in the city unless the driver and each front-seat occupant in the
vehicle are wearing occupant protection systems, and all occupant protection
systems worn are properly adjusted and fastened.
      (2)   Requirements for a child under the age of 16 are provided in §
70.035 of this code and state statute.
   (B)   Enforcement of this section by state or local law enforcement agencies
shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a motor
vehicle has been cited or charged with a violation or some other offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a traffic
infraction, as defined in Neb. RS 39-602, and shall be fined $25, but no court
costs shall be assessed against him or her, nor shall any points be assessed
against the driving record of such person. Regardless of the number of persons
in such vehicle not wearing an occupant protection system pursuant to such
section, only one violation shall be assessed against the driver of such motor
vehicle for each time the motor vehicle is stopped and violation of such
section is found.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician that
the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical reasons;
      (2)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
      (3)   A member of an ambulance or rescue service unit while involved in
patient care.
   (E)   Evidence that a person was not wearing a seat belt at the time he or
she was injured shall not be admissible in regard to the issue of liability or
proximate cause, but may be admissible as evidence concerning mitigation of
damages, except that it shall not reduce recovery for damages by more than 5%.
   (F)   Definitions. Terms have the following meanings when used in this
section:
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1973 year
model or later for operation on any highway, road, or street, except farm
tractors and implements of husbandry designed primarily or exclusively for use
in agricultural operations, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds, and
buses.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTIONS SYSTEM. A system of utilizing a lap belt, shoulder
belt, or any combination of belts installed in a motor vehicle which:
      (1)   Restrains the driver or passengers and conforms to federal motor
vehicle safety standards, 49 CFR 571.208, 571.209, and 571.210, or to the
federal motor vehicle safety standards for passenger restraint systems
applicable for the motor vehicle's model year; or
      (2)   If the system has been replaced, meets the requirements of 49 CFR
571.208, 571.209, and 571.210 that applied to the originally installed occupant
protection system or of a more recently issued version of such regulations.
(‘79 Code, § 5-443) (Ord. 403, passed 11-19-85) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar and additional provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,265 through 60-6,273
§ 70.037 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways of the
city shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the movement
of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient horn in
good working order or other efficient signal devices. From sunset to sunrise
and any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley or highway at a distance
of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall be equipped with lighted headlights, and
every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped with one or more red
taillights at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such vehicle. No
person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an electric light or
lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within
the city. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display
clearance lights as required by state law. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order, provided that motorcycles need only be
equipped with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
200 feet, provided that no vehicle, except as herein provided, shall be
equipped with nor shall any person use upon a vehicle any siren or horn
otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or
warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and
provided further that every Police and Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or
other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped
with a bell, siren or whistle of the type approved by the City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 5-503) (Am. Ord. 611, passed 2-7-95; Am. Ord. 676, passed 7-1-97)
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Lights, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, and 60-6,235
   Brakes, see Neb. RS 60-6,244
   Horns, see Neb. RS 60-6,285
§ 70.038 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street any
vehicle with a sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than a
certificate or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on a
motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or other
moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to be
operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,254, 60-6,255, 60-6,256) (‘79 Code, § 5-504) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.039 MUFFLER OR NOISE-SUPPRESSING SYSTEM; PREVENTION OF FUMES AND SMOKE.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle shall be equipped, maintained, and operated so as
to prevent excessive or unusual noise. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on
a highway unless the motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler or other
effective noise-suppressing system in good working order and in constant
operation. It shall be unlawful to use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar
device on any motor vehicle upon a highway.
      (2)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286)
   (B)   No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, the intake
muffler, or any other noise- abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner
such that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that
emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured. Procedures used to establish
compliance with this division (B) shall be those used to establish compliance
of a new motor vehicle with the requirements of Neb. RS 60-6,363 to 60-6,374.
(Neb. RS 60-6,371) (‘79 Code, § 5-505) (Am. Ord. 761, passed 2-16-99) Penalty,
see §
70.999
§ 70.040 WEIGHT AND SIZE LIMITS; PERMITS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL STREET. The following streets within the city: 66th Street,
72nd Street, 84th Street, 96th Street, 108th Street, Harrison Street, Giles
Road, Portal Road and all streets located within any type of commercial or
industrial zoning district in the city.
      EXEMPT VEHICLE. A vehicle exempted from the provisions of this section by
division (B) of this section.
      PARKED ON A RECURRING BASIS or RECURRING PARKING. Parking at the same
premises more than four times in the same calendar year.
      RESIDENTIAL STREET. Any street within the city that is not a commercial
street.
      TOTAL VEHICLE WEIGHT. The weight of the vehicle, including any load or
cargo thereon.
   (B)   General weight and size limitations for vehicles. No vehicle of a
total vehicle weight in excess of six tons that is longer than 22.5 feet or is
in excess of ten feet in height shall be operated on any of the streets of the
city without a permit to do so as hereinafter provided in this section;
provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Vehicles while being operated on a commercial street of the city;
      (2)   Public service vehicles, including fire, rescue and other emergency
vehicles, public transportation vehicles and city repair vehicles;
      (3)   Any vehicle carrying a load destined for a point of delivery within
the city limits, vehicles parked while unloading at such point of delivery
within the city and vehicles making return trips after having immediately made
or attempted such a delivery at a point within the city; and
      (4)   Motor homes and other personal use vehicles used solely for
noncommercial purposes while being driven to or from the home premises of the
owner or lessee of the vehicle for purposes of storage on such premises.
   (C)   Special permits for residential areas.
      (1)   Vehicles with a total vehicle weight in excess of six tons but not
more than ten tons, in excess of 22.5 feet in length or in excess of ten feet
in height and not falling within one of the exceptions of division (B) of this
section may be allowed to travel on residential streets of La Vista for a
limited purpose and duration; provided that the operator or owner thereof must
upon written application first obtain from the Chief of Police of the city a
permit to operate said vehicle for said limited purpose and duration on a
specified street or streets of La Vista. The Chief of Police is authorized to
issue a special permit on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis for the
purposes and in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   The Chief shall approve the route over city residential streets
that any nonexempt vehicle shall use, which route shall generally be the most
direct route between the nearest commercial street and the permitted address
within a residential area. The operation of any nonexempt vehicle which exceeds
weight or size limitations herein prescribed on any residential street not
approved by the Chief of Police shall be a violation hereof.
   (D)   Special permit for recurring parking (essential vehicle). If the
vehicle is proposed to be parked in a residential zoning district on a
recurring basis, a permit may be issued, subject to division (J) of this
section, if all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The premises upon which the vehicle is to be parked must be the
principal residence of the owner or lessee of the vehicle and the vehicle must
be used in the principal trade or business of a person residing at the
premises;
      (2)   The annual fee for vehicles weighing more than six tons but not
more than ten tons shall be $200 per year. Said fee shall be payable at the
time of issuance of the permit and on each renewal thereof. No recurring
parking permit shall be issued for any vehicle that while being driven on a
residential street of the city will have a total vehicle weight exceeding ten
tons;
      (3)   A vehicle for which a special permit for recurring parking is
issued and which is licensed for a gross weight of ten tons or more shall have
an empty vehicle weight of less than ten tons and shall be without any load or
cargo while being operated on a residential street or parked in a residential
area of the city;
      (4)   The Chief shall require that the owner file with the Police
Department approval in writing from a minimum of 75% of neighboring landowners
that they have no objections to the regular and recurring parking of said
vehicle at the permitted address. As used herein, the term NEIGHBORING
LANDOWNERS shall mean owners of property within 200 feet of the residential
property on which the vehicle is to be parked. The operator or owner of said
vehicle shall be responsible for obtaining and filing the necessary written
approvals from neighboring landowners;
      (5)   The permit to be issued and exercise of any rights thereunder shall
not be in conflict with the provisions of or be prohibited by any statute,
ordinance or zoning regulation applicable to the premises or any restrictive or
protective covenants or other property restrictions of record applicable to the
premises;
      (6)   The permit shall be issued for a period of 12 months and any
renewal thereof shall be for a like period; and
      (7)   Any permit for recurring parking that is issued but which does not
meet all of the foregoing conditions shall be revoked.
   (E)   Special permit for nonrecurring parking. Parking of a vehicle
described in division (B) above (not more often than four times per calendar
year for a period of time not exceeding eight hours each) shall not be
considered to be parking on a recurring basis, and the Police Chief may issue
up to four single trip permits per year per vehicle for specified dates, not to
exceed 72 hours each, within each calendar year without imposing the annual fee
prescribed in the preceding division.
   (F)   Display of permit. All permits shall be conspicuously displayed on the
vehicle during such time as it shall be in the city in the manner and in the
location on the vehicle as may be designated by the Chief of Police.
   (G)   Replacement vehicle. The holder of a permit for recurring parking may
substitute a vehicle purchased in replacement of the originally permitted
vehicle, provided such replacement vehicle does not exceed the weight or size
of the originally permitted vehicle and within ten days after purchase of the
replacement vehicle, the permit holder presents proof of replacement purchase
to the Chief of Police, who shall thereupon cause notation of replacement to be
made upon the permit.
   (H)   Limited to one vehicle. No more than one vehicle may be covered by a
permit. No more than one permit may be issued for the same premises.
   (I)   Parking on streets. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to authorize the parking of any vehicle on public streets in
violation of §
72.19.
   (J)   No permits for recurring parking to be issued after June 30, 1993.
Note: no new special permits may be issued after June 30, 1993. The provisions
of this section regarding special permits only shall apply to the renewal of
any special permit (in the discretion of the Chief of Police) that was
originally issued on or before June 30, 1993. The period of eligibility for
special permits for recurring parking shall expire on June 30, 1993, and no new
permit for such purposes shall be issued thereafter. Nothing in this division
shall be construed as prohibiting or limiting the Chief of Police's authority
to renew permits issued on or before June 30, 1993, consistent with ordinances
of the city in effect at time of renewal.
   (K)   Prior permits revoked. All permits issued under this section prior to
the effective date of this chapter are hereby revoked.
   (L)   No property right created. No permit issued pursuant hereto shall
create or vest any right to renewal thereof or to a continuation of the
permitted activity beyond the term of the permit.
   (M)   Penalty. Any person who after June 30,1993 operates a vehicle on a
residential street in the city in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to fine and imprisonment
as provided in §
70.999.
   (N)   Suspension/revocation of permit. A person holding a recurring special
parking permit who violates the provisions of such permit or of this section
shall be subject to suspension of his/her permit for a period not to exceed 30
days for the second violation occurring any time after the effective date
hereof and shall be subject to revocation for a third violation occurring any
time after the effective date hereof.
(‘79 Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 112, passed - -; Am. Ord. 434, passed 4-7-87; Am.
Ord. 559, passed 4-6-93; Am. Ord. 573, passed 9-7-93; Am. Ord. 1426, passed 9-
7-21) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.041 TIRE SPECIFICATIONS; PERMIT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated on the streets or public places of the
city, the wheels of which shall be equipped with other than rubber tires. By
way of specification and not by way of limitation, vehicles with wheels
equipped with cleats, blocks, ribs, ridges, lugs, spikes, beads, crawler
tractor type treads or other protuberance shall not be operated on the streets
of La Vista; provided, however, this section shall not be construed to prohibit
use of cleated snow tires as authorized by §
93.049 of this code.
   (B)   A vehicle equipped with wheels of any of the foregoing prohibited
types may be allowed to travel on the streets of La Vista for a limited purpose
and duration; provided, that the operator or owner thereof must upon written
application first obtain from the Chief of Police of the city a permit to
operate said vehicle for said limited purpose and duration on a specified
street or streets of La Vista; and provided that the Chief of Police, before
issuing any such permit, shall first determine that the operation of said
vehicle will not cause undue wear or tear on said specified street or streets.
(‘79 Code, § 5-507) (Ord. 99, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.042 SCHOOL BUS QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a school bus upon the streets of the city
while the number of passengers therein exceeds the seating capacity designated
by the manufacturer of said bus or while any passenger therein is not seated.
('79 Code, § 5-508)
   (B)   Each school bus transporting school children within the city shall be
equipped with:
      (1)   An electric signal stop lamp, red in color, located on the rear of
the vehicle at a height of not less than 42 inches nor more than 60 inches from
the surface of the street or highway. Such device shall be operated
independently by a control in the driver's compartment of the vehicle and shall
be illuminated for a distance of not less than 100 feet in advance of any point
in the city at which the operator intends to stop the vehicle. Said signal stop
lamp shall comply with specifications for said lamps adopted by the Nebraska
Department of Transportation.
      (2)   Mechanical stop-signal arm, which the operator of the school bus
shall cause to be extended from the left or driver's side of the school bus
during such time as the bus is stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers. Said mechanical stop-signal arm shall comply with specifications
for same adopted by the Nebraska Department of Transportation.
      (3)   A seating space for each passenger allowed to enter the bus. No
operator of any school bus shall permit passengers to board the bus in greater
number than the seating capacity designated by the manufacturer of said bus.
(‘79 Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 102, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1350, passed 7-2-19)
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.055 DRIVER’S DUTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public
highway, private road or private drive resulting in injury or death to any
person shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident.
      (2)   Give his or her name, address and the registration number of his or
her vehicle and exhibit his or her operator's or chauffeur's license to the
person struck, or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with.
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the
public highway, private road or private drive, resulting in damage to property
shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident.
      (2)   Give his or her name, address and the registration number of his or
her vehicle and exhibit his or her operator's or chauffeur's license to the
owner of the property struck, or the driver or occupants of any other vehicle
involved in the collision.
(‘79 Code, § 5-430)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-696 et seq.
§ 70.056 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of violating the provisions of this subchapter
relative to the duty to stop in the event of certain accidents shall be subject
to the penalties set forth in state statutes for the particular violation or
violations, which statutes provide for varying penalties depending on the
circumstances, in some cases providing for a fine of up to $1,000, or up to one
year imprisonment, or both. In addition, the court in some cases shall prohibit
the person from driving any motor vehicle for a period of not more than one
year from the date of payment, or satisfaction of fine, or discharge from jail
or a correctional facility, whichever is later, and revoke any operator's or
chauffeur's license for a like period.
(Neb. RS 60-696, 60-698) (‘79 Code, § 5-431) (Am. Ord. 1033, passed 5-1-07)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.070 PLACING AND MAINTAINING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices upon streets,
roads, avenues, boulevards, highways, or any other publicly maintained ways
under its jurisdiction and open to the use of the public for vehicular traffic
as it shall deem necessary to indicate and carry out the provisions of the
Nebraska Rules of the Road or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, and such
devices shall conform with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
adopted by the Nebraska Department of Transportation from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 1350, passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.071 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon or in view
of any street any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts to
direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(‘79 Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.072 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices, in any street or
alley under the city's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(‘79 Code, § 5-218) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.073 PRIOR SIGNS AND REGULATIONS.
   All signs, signals and markings not inconsistent herewith established
pursuant to resolutions of the City Council prior to the effective date of this
code shall be deemed to have been established pursuant to this code and shall
remain in full force and effect until further resolution of the City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 5-219)
§ 70.074 OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   Operators of all vehicles are required to observe the instructions of all
traffic or parking signs and signals placed under the provisions of this
chapter. Such signs and signals shall include all lettered signs, all
barricades, all mechanical traffic signs and all paint or other markings placed
upon the surface of the roadway or upon curbing. Such signs and signals shall
be held to have the same authority as the personal direction of a police
officer.
(‘79 Code, § 5-220) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.075 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk, but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
(‘79 Code, § 5-221) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.076 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street and at such other
places as they may deem necessary.
(‘79 Code, § 5-217)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.077 DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any city sign or
monument, traffic sign or signal, traffic-control device, traffic-control
surveillance device, or any part thereof.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) (‘79 Code, § 5-403) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.078 AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS.
   No vehicle shall turn at any intersection where an automatic signal system
is in operation except when such signal system is displaying a green light;
provided that vehicles may turn on a red signal when in compliance with the
provisions of this title governing such turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as
to proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic
signal system is in operation.
(‘79 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
§ 70.079 AUTOMATIC SIGNAL SYSTEM.
   At each intersection where an automatic signal system is in operation, all
vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing such street intersection shall be
governed by such automatic signal system. The display of the red signal light
shall be a signal for traffic to stop outside of the street intersection. The
display of the yellow signal light shall announce that traffic be at attention
to stop when the red light is displayed, and the green signal light shall be a
signal for traffic to promptly move forward. It shall be unlawful for any
person to violate any such signal.
(‘79 Code, § 5-202) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 et seq.
CITATIONS
§ 70.090 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, "citation" shall mean any citation issued by any
officer of the city police to any person for any offense which is a traffic
infraction, or other infraction, or for any violation or alleged violation of
any ordinance of the city or any statute of the state of Nebraska, and any copy
thereof. The term does not include the City Police Department file copy of a
citation which has previously been forwarded to the County Attorney, which file
copy may be disposed of in such manner as the Chief of Police may determine
when he or she determines that retention of such file copy is no longer
necessary.
(‘79 Code, § 5-440) (Ord. 356, passed 12-20-83)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.091 FORM AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall provide, in appropriate form, citations
containing notices to appear. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
issuance of citation books to the city police and shall maintain a record of
every such book, and each citation number therein, issued to the city police.
The Chief of Police shall require and retain a receipt for every book so
issued. The Chief of Police shall require the return of all copies of each
citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not
issued to an alleged violator.
   (B)   All records regarding issued or unissued citations may be audited by
the City Council or City Administrator on request by either of them.
(‘79 Code, § 5-437) (Am. Ord. 356, passed 12-20-83)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.092 DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The city police upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged violator
of any provision of this title shall deposit a copy of the traffic citation
with the City Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, such
citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or other official
action by the judge of the court, including a forfeiture of bail, by the
deposit of sufficient bail with or payment of a fine to the court by the person
to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the city police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(‘79 Code, § 5-438) (Am. Ord. 356, passed 12-20-83) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Statutory provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422 et seq.
§ 70.093 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided herein shall be guilty of an offense.
(‘79 Code, § 5-439) (Am. Ord. 356, passed 12-20-83) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.105 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor and City Council may, with respect to streets and roads under
their jurisdiction, adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental
regulations as may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions. In
addition to and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Chief of Police and
police officers of the city shall at all times direct all traffic in conformity
with law or, in the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite
traffic or insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require.
(Neb. RS 81-2005) (‘79 Code, § 5-432)
§ 70.106 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to exercise all
powers and duties, with relation to the management of street traffic, and to
direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary, temporarily
divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health and convenience the
movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every kind in streets,
in parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the signal
of any police officer.
(‘79 Code, § 5-433) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty of peace officers to enforce rules and laws, see Neb. RS 60-683
§ 70.107 REFUSAL TO OBEY POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(’70 Code, § 5-434) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.108 EXEMPTION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions stated in
the Nebraska Rules of the Road.
   (B)   The driver of such emergency vehicle may stop, park, or stand,
irrespective of the provisions of the rules and of this title, and disregard
regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions.
   (C)   The driver of such emergency vehicle, except wreckers towing disabled
vehicles and highway maintenance vehicles and equipment, may also:
      (1)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indications,
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
      (2)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (D)   Except for such emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle, the
exemptions granted in this section to such emergency vehicle shall apply only
when the driver of such vehicle, while in motion, sounds an audible signal by
bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and when such
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted light displaying a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of such
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver of such vehicle from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114) (‘79 Code, § 5-435)
§ 70.109 UNLAWFULLY PARKED VEHICLE DECLARED OBSTRUCTION, MISDEMEANOR AND PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   The parking of a vehicle in violation of any applicable provision of this
code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation is hereby declared to
constitute an obstruction of the streets, a misdemeanor and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 924, passed 1-20-04)
§ 70.110 SUMMARY REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   Police officers of the city are hereby empowered to determine if a vehicle
parked in violation of any applicable provision of this code, state law or city
ordinance, rule or regulation is endangering the public health and/or safety. A
police officer of the city shall order the removal pursuant to §
70.112 below of any vehicle that the officer finds is described in any one or
more of divisions (A) through (C) below:
   (A)   Such vehicle is parked in violation of any applicable provision of
this code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation, and:
      (1)   Such vehicle is endangering the public health and/or safety,
      (2)   Such vehicle has overdue tickets or warrants pending,
      (3)   Such vehicle is a public nuisance pursuant to §
72.24 proscribing the parking of vehicles without current annual license plates
(including current in transit decals issued by a licensed motor vehicle dealer)
and registration,
      (4)   Such vehicle is the subject of one or more overdue orders of
abatement pursuant to §
70.111,
   (B)   Such vehicle was being driven by or in the possession of an individual
taken into police custody and the officer determines that removal of the
vehicle is necessary or advisable, or
   (C)   Removal of such vehicle is reasonably necessary to preserve evidence
of or related to a crime.
(Ord. 924, passed 1-20-04)
§ 70.111 ABATEMENT OF PARKING VIOLATION.
   If any vehicle found to be parked in violation of any applicable provision
of this code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation is not described
in §
70.110(A), (B) or (C) above, a police officer of the city shall affix to such
vehicle a complaint and notice of a public nuisance and misdemeanor, and order
to abate such nuisance within the time stated therein. The Police Department
shall develop and apply a uniform schedule of time for abating nuisances based
on the violation giving rise to the nuisance. The owner or person in possession
of such vehicle shall, within the time specified in such order, abate such
nuisance. Each separate period of time that a vehicle is found to be parked in
violation of any applicable provision of this code, state law or city
ordinance, rule or regulation shall constitute a separate and distinct nuisance
and misdemeanor and a separate and distinct complaint, notice and order of
abatement shall be affixed to such vehicle for each such period of time.
(Ord. 924, passed 1-20-04)
22B   La Vista - Traffic Code
§ 70.112 TOWING OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever any vehicle is found coming under the provisions of §
70.110, the same shall be removed by a police officer and taken by him, or
others acting under his supervision and direction, to a garage or lot
designated by the city or Chief of Police for such purpose. It shall be the
duty of the person in charge of the garage or lot to which a vehicle is towed
to keep, and provide to the Chief of Police from time to time as requested, a
record of the names of the owners of all vehicles received, together with the
make, model, color, license and registration numbers of each vehicle, the
nature and circumstances of each violation, any visible damage to the vehicle
from inspection upon receipt, and all amounts collected that are related to the
removal and storage of vehicles for the city.
(Ord. 924, passed 1-20-04)
§ 70.113 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE: PROOF OF LICENSING AND
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A vehicle towed into a garage or lot under the provisions of §§
70.109 through
70.113, inclusive, shall not be released therefrom except upon payment by the
owner to the city or, if directed by the city, to the person in charge of such
garage or lot the cost of removal, towing and daily storage, and any other
administrative costs or fees of or incurred by the city or said garage or lot
related to the removal, towing or storage of said vehicle. A receipt for such
costs and fees shall be issued to the owner of such vehicle. To ensure that the
vehicle is released to the proper owner, a vehicle towed to a garage or lot
without current license plates and current registration shall not be released
therefrom except upon proof of proper licensing and registration of the vehicle
as required by state statute or city ordinance.
   (B)   With respect to a recovered stolen vehicle, the owner of which is
readily apparent from license plates, registration and city law enforcement or
motor vehicle records, the required payment of any impound administrative fee
shall be waived for up to three days after the owner of the vehicle has been
notified, or an attempt has been made to notify him or her, at his or her last
known address as recorded in city law enforcement or motor vehicle records that
the vehicle is available to be reclaimed. Other than the impound administrative
fee, costs or fees of or related to the removal, towing or storage of the
vehicle shall not in any event be waived. If the vehicle has not been reclaimed
within three days after such notification or attempt to notify, the impound
administrative fee shall apply.
   (C)   If the owner of any vehicle towed into a garage or lot for a violation
described in §
70.110(A) above protests to the person in charge of the garage or lot against
the payment of any cost or fee described in this section for the towing or
storage of such vehicle or related administrative costs or fees, the person in
charge of the garage or lot shall, upon payment of the costs and/or fees to
which a protest is made, issue a receipt therefor marked 'Paid Under Protest.'
Thereupon it shall be the duty of the owner or operator of the garage or lot to
safely keep such fees and report such fact to the Chief of Police, who shall
forthwith cause a complaint to be filed against the owner of the vehicle
charging him with causing or contributing to the creation or maintenance of a
public nuisance. If, upon trial thereof, such person is found not guilty of the
offense, it shall be the duty of the lot or garage operator to refund to the
person the fees paid under protest.
   (D)   The remedies of the city to remove, tow and provide for the storage of
vehicles, and payment of costs of such removal, towing and storage and
administrative costs and fees, pursuant to §§
70.109 through
70.113, are in addition to any other applicable remedies or penalties under
this code or other applicable law.
(Ord. 924, passed 1-20-04)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any chapter
or section of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular chapter or section for which the person
stands convicted of violating or unless administered by and paid through the La
Vista Violations Bureau, the penalty for such violation shall be in any amount
not less than $5 and not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for any length of
time not to exceed three months, in the discretion of the court.
(‘79 Code, § 5-801) (Am. Ord. 514, passed 12-4-90)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
71.001   Willful reckless driving
   
71.002   Reckless driving
   
71.003   Careless driving
   
71.004   Negligent driving
   
71.005   Improper driving
   
71.006   Lesser included offenses
   
71.007   Backing
   
71.008   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.009   Following distance
   
71.010   Following fire apparatus and public works vehicles
   
71.011   Funeral processions
   
71.012   Crowding front seat
   
71.013   Obstructing driver’s view
   
71.014   Riding outside vehicle
   
71.015   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
71.016   Driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs
   
71.017   Operator qualifications
Pedestrians
   
71.030   Right-of-way
   
71.031   Overtaking stopped vehicle
   
71.032   Crossing away from crosswalk
   
71.033   Walk on sidewalks
   
71.034   Walking in roadway
   
71.035   Standing in roadway
   
71.036   Due care required
   
71.037   Soliciting rides
Turning
   
71.050   Turning generally
   
71.051   Right turn on red
   
71.052   U turns
   
71.053   Hand signals
   
71.054   Caution required
Right-of-way
   
71.065   Generally
   
71.066   Driving on right-hand side of street
   
71.067   Overtaking vehicle
   
71.068   Limitation of driving on left side of street
   
71.069   Following too closely
   
71.070   Emergency vehicles
Passing
   
71.080   Intersection
   
71.081   Hindrance
   
71.082   Driving abreast
Street Designation
   
71.095   Authority
   
71.096   Truck routes
Speed Limits
   
71.110   Generally
   
71.111   Exceptions
   
71.112   Near schools
   
71.113   Minimum speed
   
71.114   Electronic detector
School Crossing Zones
   
71.125   Authority to designate
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving and shall be punished as provided by
statute.
(‘79 Code, § 5-413)
Statutory reference:
   Definition, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
   Misdemeanor classification, see Neb. RS 60-6,215
   Point system, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 71.002 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(‘79 Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Definition, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
   Misdemeanor classification, see Neb. RS 60-6,215
   Point system, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 71.003 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this city carelessly or without
due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless
driving.
(‘79 Code, § 5-414) (Am. Ord. 262, passed 12-4-79) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
§ 71.004 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(‘79 Code, § 5-415) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   State point system, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 71.005 IMPROPER DRIVING.
   Any person who shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street of the city in
an improper and unreasonable manner without regard for the rules of the road or
so as to endanger the property of others shall be deemed guilty of improper
driving.
(‘79 Code, § 5-416) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.006 LESSER INCLUDED OFFENSES.
   Any person charged with operating a vehicle in a reckless manner under §§
71.001 or
71.002 may be convicted under said charge of operating a vehicle in a careless
manner under §
71.003 or in a negligent manner under §
71.004 or in an improper manner under §
71.005 which offenses shall be included within the offense of operation of a
motor vehicle in a reckless manner as lesser offenses. The offenses of
negligent driving under §
71.004 and improper driving under §
71.005 shall be lesser offenses, included within the offense of careless
driving and the offense of improper driving under this shall be a lesser
offense included within the offense of negligent driving.
(‘79 Code, § 5-417) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.007 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given, and, while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind or interfere with other
traffic. The driver of a parked vehicle about to back shall give moving
vehicles the right-of-way.
(‘79 Code, § 5-418) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,169
§ 71.008 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or the directions of a peace officer, or to yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(‘79 Code, § 5-419) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Stops prohibited by statute, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 71.009 FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140(1)) (‘79 Code, § 5-423) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.010 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS AND PUBLIC WORKS VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle:
   (A)   Shall not follow, closer than 500 feet, any fire apparatus traveling
in response to a fire alarm or drive into or park such vehicle within the block
where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm; and
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing any other vehicle, shall not follow
any public works vehicle more closely than 100 feet when traveling upon a
roadway outside of a business or residential district if:
      (1)   Such public works vehicle is engaged in plowing snow, removing
deposited material from the surface of the road or spreading salt, sand or
other material upon the surface of the road or is in motion on or near the
traveled portion of a road performing other maintenance duties; and
      (2)   Such public works vehicle is displaying a flashing amber or white
light.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140 and 60-6,183) (‘79 Code, § 5-424) (Am. Ord. 674, passed 7-1-
97) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.011 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles and Fire Department vehicles, responding
to emergency calls or orders in their several departments, ambulances
responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying United States mails shall be
driven through a funeral procession or cortege, except with the permission of a
police officer.
(‘79 Code, § 5-425) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 60-680(1)(c)
   Restrictions on following vehicles, see Neb. RS 60-6,140
§ 71.012 CROWDING FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or there is in
the front seat such a number of persons exceeding three, or there is a package,
pet, other person, or other encumbrance in the vehicle, such as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver's control over the vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 5-426) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 71.013 OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, on a
highway when the motor vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent the
driver from obtaining a view of the highway to the rear by looking backward
from the driver's position unless such vehicle is equipped with a right-side
and a left-side outside mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of
the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
Temporary outside mirrors and attachments used when towing a vehicle shall be
removed from the motor vehicle or retracted within the outside dimensions
thereof when it is operated upon the highway without such trailer.
(Neb. RS 60-6,254)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon a
highway with any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side wing vents, or side or rear windows of the motor vehicle other
than a certificate or other paper required to be so displayed by law. The front
windshield, side wing vents, and side or rear windows may have a visor or other
shade device which is easily moved aside or removable, is normally used by a
motor vehicle operator during daylight hours, and does not impair the driver's
field of vision.
(Neb. RS 60-6,255(2))
   (C)   Every windshield on a motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be
equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the
windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the driver of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,255(3)) (‘79 Code, § 5-427) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.014 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 5-428) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 71.015 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, roller blades,
skate boards, scooters, sled, skis, or toy vehicle shall attach himself,
herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to
any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to cling or attach himself, herself or the
bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated by him or her.
(‘79 Code, § 5-429) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
Cross reference:
   Bicycles, see
Chapter 73
§ 71.016 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL AND/OR DRUGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have
been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath or urine when the officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that such person was driving or was in the actual physical control of a motor
vehicle in the city while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in
violation of this section.
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the city may require
any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a motor
vehicle in the city to submit to a preliminary test of his or her breath for
alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving traffic
violation or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who refuses to
submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath test results
indicated an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A) of this section
shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) of this
section, the person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04, and upon conviction
shall be punished as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,197.02 to 69-6,197.08. Any person
who refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this section,
shall be subject to the administrative revocation procedures provided in Neb.
RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04, and shall be guilty of a crime and, upon conviction,
punished as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,197.02 to 60-6,197.08.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,203) (‘79 Code, § 5-511) (Am. Ord. 1034,
passed 5-1-07)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory penalties, see Neb. RS 60-6,196 et seq.
§ 71.017 OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any streets of this city who is
subject to any physical handicap or impairment of sight, hearing, reflex or
dexterity which limits or impairs his or her ability to operate such vehicle
with safety.
(‘79 Code, § 5-510) Penalty, see §
70.999
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the street within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by the Chief of Police or other authorized police
officers or officials.
(‘79 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.031 OVERTAKING STOPPED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any vehicle has been stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the street it shall be unlawful
for the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.032 CROSSING AWAY FROM CROSSWALK.
   Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than within a marked
or unmarked crosswalk shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the street.
(‘79 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.033 WALK ON SIDEWALKS.
   Pedestrians must at all times use the sidewalk when walking between
intersections.
(‘79 Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.034 WALKING IN ROADWAY.
   Pedestrians walking in the roadway when no sidewalk is provided shall walk
only on the shoulder as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway. If no
sidewalk or shoulder is provided, pedestrians shall walk as near as practicable
to the edge of the roadway and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk on the left
side of the roadway, facing the oncoming traffic.
(‘79 Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.035 STANDING IN ROADWAY.
   Pedestrians must not stand, sit or lie down in the roadway except when
making emergency repairs on a vehicle in order to render it operable.
(‘79 Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.036 DUE CARE REQUIRED.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon a roadway
and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated
person upon a roadway.
(‘79 Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.037 SOLICITING RIDES.
   No person shall stand in a roadway or in the sidewalk area for the purpose
of soliciting a ride, employment, contributions, or business from the occupant
of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,157(1)) (‘79 Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.999
TURNING
§ 71.050 TURNING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and,
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   The city, on roads and streets under its jurisdiction, may cause
traffic control devices to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such
devices are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such devices.
(Neb. RS 60-6,159) (‘79 Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.051 RIGHT TURN ON RED.
   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a turn,
vehicles facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to
make a right turn after stopping. Such turning vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians lawfully within the adjacent crosswalk and to other
vehicular traffic lawfully using the intersection. The City Council has the
authority to prohibit turning right on red at any intersection within the city
where it deems such a prohibition necessary, provided that those intersections
where turning right on red is prohibited shall bear signs to that effect placed
and printed in such a manner so as to be conspicuous from a vehicle about to
enter the intersection.
(‘79 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,123
§ 71.052 U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection, provided, however, that no vehicle shall be
turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection (I) that
is on a curve, the approach to or crest of a grade or hill, or under any other
circumstances where the vehicle is not visible to the driver of any other
vehicle approaching from either direction within 500 feet, or (ii) where a sign
is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 60-6,160) (‘79 Code, § 5-207) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.053 HAND SIGNALS.
   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously
during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand and arm
or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Transportation.
The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left side of
the vehicle in the following manner: stop or decreased speed, hand and arm
extended downward; left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally; right turn,
hand and arm extended upward. Required signals shall be given by a signal
device of a type approved by the Department of Transportation under any
condition when a hand and arm signal would not be visible for 100 feet to the
front and rear of the signaling driver. Any person operating a bicycle may
signal a right turn by fully extending the right arm and pointing.
(Neb. RS 60-6,161 through 60-6,163) (‘79 Code, § 5-208) (Am. Ord. 1351, passed
7-2-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.054 CAUTION REQUIRED.
   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning or changing the
course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other
vehicles of his or her intention to make such movement.
(‘79 Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Hand and arm signals, see Neb. RS 60-6,163
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.065 GENERALLY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer
stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk or at any
regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of traffic
is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices. Every
pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian crossing,
crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the
street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a city street from a private road or
drive shall yield the right-of- way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(‘79 Code, § 5-211) (Am. Ord. 609, passed 1-17-95) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 71.066 DRIVING ON RIGHT-HAND SIDE OF STREET.
   (A)   The driver in a vehicle shall drive the same upon the right half of
the street or roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half is out of repair or for some reason obstructed,
in which case the driver shall yield the right-of-way in accordance with
applicable law; or
      (3)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   (B)   When approaching any bridge, underpass or viaduct or when approaching
or crossing an intersection of streets, the driver of the vehicle shall at all
times keep such vehicle on the right half of the roadway unless such right half
is out of repair and for such reasons impassable.
(‘79 Code, § 5-212) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.067 OVERTAKING VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street until safely clear of such
overtaken vehicle.
   (B) The driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor
of the overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of his or her
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of an overtaking vehicle shall give visual signal before
passing or attempting to pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
(‘79 Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,135 and 60-6,136
§ 71.068 LIMITATION ON DRIVING ON LEFT SIDE OF STREET.
   A vehicle shall not be driven to the left side of the center line of the
highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(‘79 Code, § 5-214) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,135 and 60-6,136
§ 71.069 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall follow another vehicle moving in the same
direction more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for
the speed of such vehicle, the traffic and condition of the street, nor
approach any stopped or parked vehicle from the rear in such a manner as to
collide therewith.
(‘79 Code, § 5-215) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on following vehicles, see Neb. RS 60-6,140
§ 71.070 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle which makes use
of proper audible or visual signals:
      (1)   The driver of any other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway or to either edge or curb of a one-
way roadway, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such
position until the emergency vehicle passes unless otherwise directed by any
police officer; and
      (2)   Any pedestrian using the roadway shall yield the right-of-way until
the emergency vehicle passes unless otherwise directed by any peace officer.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,151) (‘79 Code, § 5-216) Penalty, see §
70.999
PASSING
§ 71.080 INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not, within 100 feet of the approach of or
while traversing a street intersection, overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction if such passing requires such overtaking
vehicle to drive to the left of the center of the street.
(‘79 Code, § 5-420) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,135 and 60-6,136
§ 71.081 HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,133) (‘79 Code, § 5-421) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.082 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be driven
no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(‘79 Code, § 5-422) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional requirements, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
STREET DESIGNATION
§ 71.095 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution, with respect to streets or
highways under its jurisdiction and within the reasonable exercise of the
police power:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or streets for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized by applicable statutes;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and enforce an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the National
System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less than five
degrees within its jurisdiction. For purposes of this division, engine brake
means a device that converts a power producing engine into a power-absorbing
air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (5), (6),
(7), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (16), (17) or (19) of this section shall be
effective until traffic control devices giving notice of such local traffic
regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such affected highway or
part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(‘79 Code, § 5-206) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.096 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for persons operating
such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for trucks, unless
to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in that event, the
operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as soon as possible in
traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall cause notices to be
posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck
routes.
(‘79 Code, § 5-204) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 60-681
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.110 GENERALLY.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless otherwise posted,
specified by this code, or permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a
person drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by
ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(‘79 Code, § 5-405) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, see Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limit, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.111 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of an emergency vehicle, except wreckers towing disabled
vehicles and highway maintenance vehicles and equipment, may as set forth in §
71.108 and Neb. RS 60-6,114 exceed the maximum speed limits set forth in §
71.110, so long as he or she does not endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   The following are specific exceptions to the general speed limits
within the city set forth in §
71.110 above:
      (1)   84th Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street. Except during
school hours, no person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than
45 miles per hour on 84th Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street in the
city, provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed
by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed. During school hours, no person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 40 miles per hour in
designated school zones on this section of 84th Street.
      (2)   72nd Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street. Except during
school hours, no person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than
35 miles per hour on 72nd Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street in the
city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed
by §
71.112 and
71.113, said lower speed shall be observed. During school hours, no person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour in
designated school zones on this section of 72nd Street.
      (3)   North side of Giles Road; between 66th and 96th Street. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 35 miles per hour on the
north half of Giles Road between 66th Street and 96th Street in the city;
provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (4)   Giles Road between 96th Street and Harrison Street. No person shall
operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 45 miles per hour on Giles Road
between 96th Street and Harrison Street in the city; provided, however, in
those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (5)   South side of Harrison Street between 69th Street and 96th Street,
and also between 104th Street and Hell Creek. No person shall operate a motor
vehicle at a speed greater than 45 miles per hour on Harrison Street between
69th Street and 96th Street, and also between 104th Street and Hell Creek in
the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is
prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (6)   North and south side of Harrison Street between Hell Creek and
Giles Road. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 45
miles per hour on Harrison Street between Hell Creek and Giles Road in the
city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed
by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (7)   96th Street between Harrison Street and Portal Road. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 45 miles per hour on 96th
Street between Harrison Street and Portal Road in the city; provided, however,
in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §§
71.112 and
71.113, said lower speed shall be observed.
2022 S-13
      (8)   108th Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 40 miles per hour on
108th Street between Giles Road and Harrison Street in the city; provided,
however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §§
71.112 and
71.113, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (9)   Portal Road between 96th Street and 107th Street. No person shall
operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 40 miles per hour on Portal
Road between 96th Street and 107th Street in the city; provided, however, in
those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (10)   West Giles Road between Giles Road and the BNSF Railroad Crossing.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 45 miles per
hour on West Giles Road between Giles Road and the BNSF Railroad Crossing in
the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is
prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (11)   114th Street between Giles Road and one-half mile south of Giles
Road. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 45 miles
per hour on 114th Street between Giles Road and one-half mile south of Giles
Road in the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is
prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (12)   120th Street between Giles Road and one-half mile south of Giles
Road. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 35 miles
per hour on 120th Street between Giles Road and one-half mile south of Giles
Road in the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is
prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (13)   Harry Andersen Avenue between Harrison Street and the county line
between Sarpy and Douglas Counties. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at
a speed greater than 45 miles per hour on Harry Andersen Avenue between
Harrison Street and the county line between Sarpy and Douglas Counties in the
city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed
by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (14)   83rd Avenue between Main Street and 450 feet south of Main Street.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15 miles per
hour on 83rd Street between Main Street and 450 feet south of Main Street in
the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower speed is
prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (15)   Main Street between 84th Street and City Centre Drive. No person
shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour on Main
Street between 84th Street and City Centre Drive in the city; provided,
however, in those instances where a lower speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (16)   Barmettler Drive between 84th Street and 450 feet east of Main
Street. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15
miles per hour on Barmettler Drive between 84th Street and 450 feet east of
Main Street in the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower
speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
      (17)   City Centre Drive between 84th Street and 900 feet east of 84th
Street. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than 15
miles per hour on City Centre Drive between 84th Street and 900 feet east of
84th Street in the city; provided, however, in those instances where a lower
speed is prescribed by §
71.112, said lower speed shall be observed.
(‘79 Code, §§ 5-406, 5-409) (Ord. 85, passed - -; Ord. 135, passed - -; Ord.
174, passed - -; Am. Ord. 304, passed 4-20-82; Am. Ord. 1012, passed 10-17-06;
Am. Ord. 1081, passed 11-4-08; Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 71.112 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when in an area
designated as a school crossing zone pursuant to §
71.125, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 miles per hour in such school crossing zone, and such driver shall
stop at all stop signs located in such school crossing zone, and it shall be
unlawful for such driver to make a U-turn at any such stop sign or otherwise
within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to overtake
and pass another vehicle in any school crossing zone in which the roadway has
only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Neb. RS 60-6,134.01) (‘79 Code, § 5-407) (Am. Ord. 772, passed 4-4-99)
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   State and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.113 MINIMUM SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person unnecessarily to drive at such a slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic.
(‘79 Code, § 5-410) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.114 ELECTRONIC DETECTOR.
   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based upon the
visual observation of any peace officer, while being competent for all other
purposes, shall be corroborated by the use of radio microwave, mechanical, or
other electronic speed measurement device. The results of such radio microwave,
mechanical, or electronic speed measurement device may be accepted as competent
evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal proceeding
when the speed of the vehicle is at issue, subject to satisfaction of any
applicable statutory requirements.
(‘79 Code, § 5-411) (Am. Ord. 1370, passed 10-1-19)
SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES
§ 71.125 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area of a
roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone, as defined in Neb. RS
60-658.01 through the use of a sign or traffic- control device as specified by
the City Council in conformity with the manual on uniform traffic-control
devices. Any school crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the
first sign or traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and
continues until a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school
crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) (Am. Ord. 771, passed 4-4-99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Authority of City Council
Regulations
   
72.15   Time limit
   
72.16   Manner of parking
   
72.17   Obstructing driveways, alleys, or sidewalks
   
72.18   Public alleys and easements
   
72.19   Parking of trucks, trailers, and large vehicles in residential
districts
   
72.20   Repairing or storage of motor vehicles in streets prohibited
   
72.21   Parking after snow
   
72.22   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.23   Street intersections
   
72.24   Current license
   
72.25   Nonmotorized vehicles
   
72.26   Arterial streets
   
72.27   Cul-de-sacs
   
72.28   Recreational vehicle parking; temporary parking permit
   
72.29   Parking restrictions for Mixed Use-City Centre (MU-CC) zoning districts
Parking for Persons with Disabilities
   
72.40   Definitions; state statutes adopted by reference
   
72.41   Reservation of handicapped parking spaces
   
72.42   Application for and issuance of permits; violations and penalties
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.55   Presumption of owner
   
72.56   Temporary regulations by Chief of Police
   
72.57   Access required for enforcement of handicapped parking designation
   
72.58   Violations Bureau
   
72.59   Administration fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have authority by resolution to establish no parking
zones, limited parking zones and loading zones and to regulate the manner and
direction of parking upon all streets of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 5-709)
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
REGULATIONS
§ 72.15 TIME LIMIT.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle at one location on any street for longer
than 72 hours.
(‘79 Code, § 5-702) (Am. Ord. 235, passed 10-17-78) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.16 MANNER OF PARKING.
   It is unlawful to park any vehicle on a street or part of a street
designated as a no parking zone, or in violation of any requirement of a
designated limited parking zone or loading zone. Where parking is permitted and
during times when parking is permitted it shall be in the following manner:
   (A)   Parked vehicles shall be parked headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement.
   (B)   Parked vehicles shall be parallel with the outside edge of the
roadway.
   (C)   The side of the parked vehicle located nearest to the curb or edge of
the roadway shall be no more than one foot from such curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (D)   All wheels of the parked vehicle must be on the street surface and no
part of any wheel shall be on or over the curb or beyond the edge of the
street.
   (E)   No vehicle shall park within three feet of another parked vehicle when
three or more cars are parked in succession.
   (F)   No vehicle shall be parked within three feet of the point at which the
end of the apron of any driveway or alley intersects the curb, nor within five
feet of the outer edge of any driveway or alley where such driveway or alley
intersects the curb without an apron.
(‘79 Code, § 5-703) (Am. Ord. 432, passed 4-7-87; Am. Ord. 498, passed 3-6-90;
Am. Ord. 1177, passed 6-19-12) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.17 OBSTRUCTING DRIVEWAYS, ALLEYS, OR SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful to park a vehicle so as to obstruct a private drive or alley,
on a sidewalk, in a private drive within two feet of the house-side edge of the
sidewalk, in a private drive within ten feet of the street's curb in cases
where no sidewalk exists, in an intersection or beside other vehicles parked at
the curb, whether such second vehicle is in or out of the traveled part of the
street, provided however, parking of the vehicles for the following purposes
shall not be in violation of this section: a personal automobile or pickup
truck may park in the private drive up to the house-side edge of the sidewalk,
without the allowance of two feet from the house-side edge of the sidewalk for
sight distance as stipulated above, so long as the personal automobile or
pickup truck does not encroach into the sidewalk.
(‘79 Code, § 5-704) (Am. Ord. 659, passed 10-1-96) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.18 PUBLIC ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS.
   It is unlawful to park a vehicle in any public alley or easementway, except
for the time necessary for the actual loading or unloading thereof. As used
herein, the term "public alley or easementway" shall mean a passageway or
easementway between buildings or lots or across a tract or tracts of property
and intended for vehicular use by the public but not constituting a street of
the city.
(‘79 Code, § 5-705) (Am. Ord. 366, passed 12-18-84) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.19 PARKING OF TRUCKS, TRAILERS, AND LARGE VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SEMITRAILER. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed to carry
persons or property and to be drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that
some part of its weight rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (B)   No person shall park any truck, tractor, semitrailer, delivery truck,
delivery van, or other vehicle, which individually or in combination with a
trailer exceeds a length of 22.5 feet or a height of ten feet, or which
individually or in combination with a trailer has a total weight or is licensed
for a total weight, including load and cargo therein, in excess of six tons, on
any residential zoned lot or on any street or other public property within a
residential zoning district or adjacent to residential zoned property;
provided, however, that parking of any such vehicle for the following purposes
shall not be a violation of this section:
      (1)   A vehicle and any attached trailer being used only for the purpose
of delivery or pickup of goods or materials at a point of delivery or pickup
within a residential zoning district may be parked in such a district on or
adjacent to a residential zoned lot during loading and unloading of the vehicle
at or upon such lot;
      (2)   A vehicle and any attached trailer being used in connection with
repair, service, or moving operations may be parked in such a district on or
adjacent to a residential zoned lot while the repair, service, or moving
operations are actually in progress at or upon such lot;
      (3)   A vehicle for which, prior to July 1, 1993, a valid special permit
for recurring parking had been issued pursuant to §
70.040 or its predecessor may continue to park such vehicle, or an authorized
replacement vehicle, for the remaining period of such permit, or any renewal
thereof, in accordance with the terms and conditions of such permit and §
70.040; or
      (4)   A vehicle (other than a truck-tractor) and any attached trailer may
be parked in a private drive of a residential zoned lot without restriction of
length or height if the vehicle and any attached trailer is owned by a resident
or the employer of a resident of the lot, is not so long as to violate §
72.17 and is not parked in violation of §
72.17 or of any other applicable law or section of this code, and if the total
weight of the vehicle and any attached trailer, including any load and cargo
therein, does not exceed six tons in weight and is not licensed for a weight in
excess of six tons.
(‘79 Code, § 5-701) (Am. Ord. 435, passed 6-16-87; Am. Ord. 570, passed 7-20-
93; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 1426, passed 9-7-21) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.20 REPAIRING OR STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle while it is
standing on the public streets or alleys of this city, except in case of
breakdown or other emergency, and no person shall use streets for storage
purposes during the day or night or for the purpose of working on or upon
automobiles or motor-driven vehicles of any description.
(‘79 Code, § 5-707) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.21 PARKING AFTER SNOW.
   Whenever there may have fallen two or more inches of snow, ice and/or sleet
on the streets of the city, or when the Mayor shall declare a snow emergency,
with notice thereof to the news media, it shall be unlawful for any automobile
to be parked on any public street within the city for 24 hours or until after
such accumulated snow shall have been removed by snow removers provided by the
city - whichever is later. Any automobile left parked in violation of this
section may be ordered removed by the Chief of Police and such illegal parking
shall constitute appointment of the Chief of Police as agent of the owner and
any mortgagee thereof to contract with any other party to remove said
automobile and grant a lien to such remover of said automobile of his or her
charges for removal and storage thereof. If such unlawfully parked automobile
is not removed, and by reason of its presence any part of the streets of the
city are impossible to plow clear the snow, the person in violation of this
section shall be civilly liable to the city for any added plowing expense
necessarily incurred as a result of such unlawful parking, unless the violator
shall promptly clean such unplowed area himself or herself.
(‘79 Code, § 5-708) (Am. Ord. 539, passed 11-5-91) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.22 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
may be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(‘79 Code, § 5-711) (Am. Ord. 331, passed 12-7-82) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.23 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where said
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(‘79 Code, § 5-712) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.24 CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby declared to be a public nuisance as
provided in §
70.110, to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other public property any
motor vehicle without first securing current annual license plates and
registration as provided by law. Properly licensed and registered motor
vehicles shall be allowed to be parked or placed on the streets, alleys, or
other public property where parking is permitted for a period of not more than
72 consecutive hours.
(‘79 Code, § 5-713) (Am. Ord. 925, passed 1-20-04; Am. Ord. 1177, passed 6-19-
12) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Statutory requirement, see Neb. RS 60-323
§ 72.25 NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   While not attached to a motor vehicle, a nonmotorized vehicle, other than
official municipal equipment, shall not be parked or stored on any public
street in the city, except for emergency purposes. As used in this section,
NONMOTORIZED VEHICLE means any trailer or other device without motive power
that is designed for carrying persons or property while being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 5-714) (Ord. 148, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 9-6-11)
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.26 ARTERIAL STREETS.
   (A)   No vehicles, except official municipal equipment for emergency or
maintenance purposes, shall be parked on arterial streets. Arterial streets are
identified in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Arterial streets identified are: Harrison Street, Giles Road, West
Giles Road, 66th Street, 72nd Street, 84th Street, 96th Street, and 108th
Street.
(Ord. 1177, passed 6-19-12)
§ 72.27 CUL-DE-SACS.
   There shall be no parking within the circular turn-around portion of cul-de-
sac streets and there shall be no parking on either side of the non turn-around
portion of the streets within 25 feet of the beginning or end of the curvature
of the pavement for the circular turn-around potion of the pavement. Parking is
allowed on one side as designated within the rest of the non turn-around
portion of a cul-de-sac street unless a no parking zone or other applicable
limitation is specifically designated on both sides of the portion. Portions of
a cul-de-sac street on which parking is allowed shall be subject to other
applicable requirements or limitations set forth in this chapter or other laws,
rules or regulations, including, but not limited to, parking restrictions in
relation to driveways and intersections.
(Ord. 1177, passed 6-19-12)
§ 72.28 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING; TEMPORARY PARKING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall park a recreational vehicle on any street or any
public property within a residential zoning district, unless:
      (1)   The recreational vehicle is less than 20 feet in length as measured
from its extreme forward point to its extreme rear point, including extensions
and any attached vehicle or trailer;
      (2)   The recreational vehicle, including extensions and any attached
vehicle or trailer, is less than ten feet in height;
      (3)   The recreational vehicle, including extensions and any attached
vehicle or trailer, is less than eight feet in width as measured at its widest
point excluding attached side mirrors; and
      (4)   A valid temporary parking permit has been issued pursuant to
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE means a motor vehicle
designed for living quarters, and includes but is not limited to travel
trailers, folding trailers, pop up trailers, and motor homes.
   (C)   Temporary parking permit for recreational vehicles under 20 feet in
length, ten feet in height, and eight feet in width.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a properly completed application, the Chief of
Police shall issue a temporary parking permit to any individual who submits an
application to park a recreational vehicle in a residential district for 72 or
fewer consecutive hours, if such parking would not violate any other applicable
provision of this code.
      (2)   (a)   Application for a permit under this division shall be made on
a form provided by the Police Department. If a recreational vehicle is brought
into the city and such a parking permit is required by this section,
application for the permit shall be made not later than the first day upon
which the Police Department office is open following the arrival of the
recreational vehicle in the city. The parking permit shall include, to the
extent practicable:
            1.   The license plate number of the recreational vehicle to be
parked;
            2.   The make, model, and serial number or vehicle identification
number of the recreational vehicle to be parked, or so much of such information
as may be discerned from inspection of the recreational vehicle;
            3.   The date of issuance of the permit;
            4.   The date or dates upon which the parking permit shall be
valid;
            5.   The address of the residence adjacent to which the parking
permit shall pertain; and
            6.   Such additional information as may be specified by the Chief
of Police.
         (b)   An issued permit shall be placed and kept in or upon the
recreational vehicle in such a manner as to be plainly visible to police and
code enforcement officers.
      (3)   No fee shall be required for the issuance of any permit or any
extension of any permit required by this section.
      (4)   One extension of a permit issued under this section may be granted,
up to a maximum of 72 hours of extension. Not more than one extension shall be
granted. The extension shall be considered one of the four permits allowable
under division (C)(5) below during any period of 12 consecutive months.
      (5)   During any period of 12 consecutive months:
         (a)   Not more than four permits may be issued for parking of the same
recreational vehicle; and
         (b)   Not more than four permits may be issued to any inhabitant or
inhabitants of, or visitor or visitors to, a single dwelling within the city or
the city's zoning jurisdiction, allowing parking of any recreational vehicle or
recreational vehicles within 1,000 feet of any property line of such single
dwelling.
      (6)   A recreational vehicle covered by a parking permit issued under
this section must be parked at least 30 feet distant from intersections and 15
feet distant from fire hydrants.
      (7)   A recreational vehicle covered by a parking permit issued under
this section shall be parked adjoining the residence described on the permit,
to the extent practicable, and shall be promptly moved or relocated as any
police or other law enforcement officer or code enforcement officer may direct.
      (8)   Individuals may not reside or sleep in a recreational vehicle
overnight while it is so parked, or run water, waste, or power lines to the
vehicle across any public-right-of way.
(Ord. 1179, passed 7-3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Parking regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.29 PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR MIXED USE-CITY CENTRE (MU-CC) ZONING
DISTRICTS.
   Pursuant to applicable laws, including without limitation Neb. RS 16 202,
16-210,16-246, 16-609 and 60-680, and Article 33 of Chapter 19, parking within
Mixed Use-City Centre (MU-CC) zoning districts shall be subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   La Vista City Centre. Not in limitation of any other provisions of
this chapter imposing more restrictive requirements, parking within the
following areas of La Vista City Centre shall be permitted for up to three
consecutive hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., and shall be
prohibited between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except as otherwise
may be temporarily ordered from time to time by the Mayor, City Administrator
or Chief of Police.
      (1)   Public right. Designated public parking areas of:
         (a)   City Centre Drive;
         (b)   Main Street;
         (c)   Barmettler Drive; and
         (d)   South 83rd Street, from Main Street to a point 450 feet south;
and
      (2)   Public surface parking. Designated public surface parking areas of
Lot 2, La Vista City Centre Replat Two (adjacent to City Parking Garage No. 1),
and Lot 7, La Vista City Centre Replat Three (adjacent to City Parking Garage
No. 2).
   (B)   Subject to change. Parking restrictions in this section shall be
subject to such review or modification from time to time as the city determines
necessary or appropriate.
(Ord. 1476, passed 3-7-23)
PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 72.40 DEFINITIONS; STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   This section hereby adopts by reference all state statutes governing parking
for persons with disabilities, including but not limited to Neb. RS 18-1736
through 18-1742, into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
Terms related to parking for persons with disabilities shall have the
definitions set forth in Neb. RS 18-1738 and 18-1741.01.
(‘79 Code, § 5-715(A)) (Ord. 265, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 612, passed 2-7-95;
Am. Ord. 677, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 704, passed 10-21-97)
§ 72.41 RESERVATION OF HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   The city may designate on-street parking spaces, and the city and any person
in lawful possession of any off-street parking facility may designate stalls or
spaces in such facility owned or operated by the city or person for the
exclusive use of persons with disabilities. Any such designations shall be made
and be posted as required by state law, and any person using such spaces shall
display an appropriate permit as provided by state law.
(‘79 Code, § 5-715(B)) (Ord. 265, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 612, passed 2-7-95;
Am. Ord. 677, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 704, passed 10-21-97)
2023 S-15
§ 72.42 APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Permits for parking for persons with disabilities shall be issued in a form
and manner in accordance with state law. The amount to be charged for a permit
shall be set by state law or, if no such amount is established, shall be
determined from time to time as necessary by the City Council. Violations
related to parking for persons with disabilities shall be prosecuted and be
subject to penalty in accordance with state law.
(‘79 Code, § 5-715(C) and (D)) (Ord. 265, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 612, passed
2-7-95; Am. Ord. 677, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 704, passed 10-21-97)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.55 PRESUMPTION OF OWNER.
   Whenever a vehicle is found to be in violation of parking regulations, proof
of the identity of the registered owner of such shall raise a presumption that
such person is guilty of the violation, rebuttable only by establishment by
such owner of the identity of the actual violator.
(‘79 Code, § 5-706)
§ 72.56 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police of the city shall have the authority to prohibit or
limit parking on any streets or portions of streets of the city for a period
not to exceed 48 hours; provided that he or she shall make such temporary
regulations known by signs or by direction of police officers.
(‘79 Code, § 5-710)
§ 72.57 ACCESS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT OF HANDICAPPED PARKING DESIGNATION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all off-street parking facilities that
include a stall or place designated as parking for handicapped or disabled, or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or any wheelchair ramp constructed
or created in accordance and in conformity with the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990.
   (B)   A written agreement, approved by the Chief of Police and for the
benefit of the city, shall be required to provide the city with the access
necessary to enforce §§
72.40 through 72.43 and §
72.57 of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 5-716) (Ord. 323, passed 10-19-82; Am. Ord. 678, passed 7-1-97)
§ 72.58 VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Violations Bureau which
shall function as a part of the office of the City Clerk, under the direction
of the City Clerk or the City Clerk's lawful designee.
   (B)   Duties. The Violations Bureau shall collect and account for all moneys
paid in accordance with the provisions of this section, issue receipts therefor
and keep records of all payments, showing the names, time and date of payment;
as well as receive, review and make determinations and recommendations on
disputed violations pursuant to division (F) below. It shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to credit to the city such amounts as shall be collected for the
payment of administrative costs. The City Clerk shall fix the days and the
hours during which the office of the Violations Bureau shall be open to the
public for the transaction of business coming under the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Waiver of appearance; penalties and costs. Whenever any person is
alleged to have violated any of the provisions of this title, such person may,
under such conditions as are herein prescribed, execute a waiver of appearance,
enter a plea of guilty and make payment of penalty and administrative fees as
follows:
      (1)   If paid within seven days of the date of the violation, a penalty
in the sum as set forth by the Master Fee Ordinance, plus administrative fees;
      (2)   If paid after seven days of the date of the violation, but within
30 days, a penalty in the sum as set forth by the Master Fee Ordinance, plus
administrative fees;
      (3)   If paid after 30 days of the date of the violation, but prior to
the filing of a complaint, a penalty in the sum as set forth by the Master Fee
Ordinance, plus administrative fees; or
      (4)   If a complaint has been filed, a penalty in the sum as set forth by
the Master Fee Ordinance and such other penalty as the court, in its
discretion, may impose pursuant to the penalty provisions of §§ 72.43 or
70.999, plus court costs.
   (D)   Issuance of warrant and complaint. Whenever any person refuses,
neglects or fails to pay any such penalty and administrative fees within 30
days of the date of the violation or otherwise refuses, neglects or fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section, a complaint charging such
violation shall be filed in Sarpy County court and a warrant issued for the
arrest of such person; provided, however, that the complaint for a handicapped
parking infraction must be issued and filed at least 24 hours before the time
set for the appearance of the cited person or such person shall be released
from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (E)   Notice. At the time of issuance of a citation for the alleged
violation coming under the provisions of this section, the accused shall be
served with a printed notice advising the accused:
      (1)   That a waiver of appearance may be executed, a plea of guilty
entered and the payment of such penalty and administrative fees made as
provided by this section;
      (2)   That upon the neglect, refusal or failure of the accused to pay
such penalty and administrative fees as provided by this section or upon the
failure, refusal or neglect of the accused to otherwise comply with the
provisions of this section, a complaint shall be filed and a warrant issued for
the arrest of the accused;
      (3)   Of the violation or violations charged as defined by this section;
      (4)   Of the form of waiver which the accused shall be required to
execute and present to the Parking Violations Bureau in order to comply with
this section;
      (5)   Of the amount of penalty and administrative fees which the accused
shall be required to pay in order to comply with this section.
   (F)   (1)   Petition procedure for parking violations. A person receiving
notice of a parking violation may file an informal notice of dispute with the
city within seven days of the occurrence of the violation. Receipt of this
notice of dispute within seven days means that the fine indicated in division
(C)(1) above will apply for each violation that the defendant timely disputes
and is not determined in defendant's favor, provided that payment is made
within seven days of the date of a notice to the defendant of the
determination. For purposes of notice to the defendant, defendant will be
deemed to have received notice upon hand delivery or two days after it is
placed in the United States Mail, whichever occurs first. If full payment is
not received within seven days of the notice of determination, the fines shall
increase as indicated in division (C) above as though the notice of dispute was
never received. Notices of dispute must be written and filed with the La Vista
City Clerk at 8110 Park View Blvd., La Vista, Nebraska.
      (2)   Informal notices of dispute will be evaluated by the Violations
Bureau and a decision will be made whether or not to recommend the City
Attorney dismiss the violation. The parking violator shall be notified by
United States Mail sent to his or her last known address as to the decision.
   (G)   Administrative fees. The administrative fee, as provided in §
72.59, for each violation citation paid through the Violations Bureau shall be
collected by the City Clerk in addition to the penalty provided herein and such
administrative fee shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city. The
administrative fee shall be uniform for all citations without regard to the
amount of the penalty assessed and shall represent the cost to the city for the
operation of the Violations Bureau which may include the wages and fringe
benefits of operating personnel; the cost of printing citations and forms;
postage; office supplies; office equipment, maintenance and repair; and
necessary overhead, including heating and air conditioning, lights, rents,
telephone expense and data processing expenses.
   (H)   Nonexclusive penalty. The penalties and administrative fees provided
herein shall not preclude the assessment or collection of additional amounts.
Such penalties and administrative fees shall be in addition to any other
applicable fees, penalties, costs or towing charges.
(‘79 Code, § 5-719) (Ord. 513, passed 11-20-90; Am. Ord. 680, passed 7-1-97;
Am. Ord. 1131, passed 11-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Prevention and abatement of nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 72.59 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   An administrative fee is hereby established in an amount as set forth in the
Master Fee Ordinance which represents the actual cost to the city of the
operation of the Violations Bureau and which shall be assessed pursuant to §
72.58. Such administrative fee shall be uniform for all citations without
regard to the amount of penalty assessed and shall be collected by the city in
addition to such penalty as provided in §
72.58 and in addition to any other applicable fees, costs or penalties.
(‘79 Code, § 5-720) (Ord. 513, passed 11-20-90; Am. Ord. 690, passed 9-16-97;
Am. Ord. 1131, passed 11-2-10)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Application of article; parental responsibility
Licenses
   
73.15   License required
   
73.16   Application
   
73.17   Issuance
   
73.18   License attachment
   
73.19   License replacement
   
73.20   Alteration of license prohibited
   
73.21   Inspection
   
73.22   License renewal
Regulations
   
73.35   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.36   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.37   Parking
   
73.38   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.39   Riding regulations
   
73.40   Following emergency vehicles
   
73.41   Clinging to vehicles prohibited
   
73.42   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.43   Carrying articles
   
73.44   Lamp and other equipment
Administration and Enforcement
   
73.55   Lost or abandoned bicycles
   
73.56   Impoundment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE.
      (1)   Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is of more than 14 inches in
diameter; or
      (2)   A device with two or three wheels, fully operative pedals for
propulsion by human power, and an electric motor with a capacity not exceeding
750 watts which produces no more than one brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 20 miles per
hour on level ground.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, and bicycles.
(‘79 Code, § 5-621) (Am. Ord. 1279, passed 4-19-16)
§ 73.02 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   These regulations, applicable to bicycles, shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any roadway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-6,117) (‘79 Code, § 5-601) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Rules of the road applicable to bicycles, see Neb. RS 60-6,314
LICENSES
§ 73.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on any street or upon any public
path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles unless such bicycle has been
licensed and a license decal or plate is attached thereto as provided herein.
(‘79 Code, § 5-602) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.16 APPLICATION.
   Application for a bicycle license and license decal or plate shall be made
upon a form provided by the city and shall be made to the City Police
Department.
(‘79 Code, § 5-603) (Am. Ord. 336, passed 4-5-83; Am. Ord. 433, passed 4-7-87;
Am. Ord. 763, passed 4-6-99)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.17 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the city, upon receiving proper application, is
authorized to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective until the
ownership of the bicycle changes or the bicycle is destroyed or significantly
altered.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he
or she knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not the
owner or entitled to possession of such bicycle.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the number of such license
issued, the name and address of the persons to whom issued, the date issued and
the manufacturer’s serial number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued.
If the manufacturer’s serial number of any bicycle shall be defaced or
illegible, the Police Department shall, on request of the owner, stamp the
bicycle with a distinctive number which shall be recorded in the same manner as
that of the manufacturer’s serial number.
(‘79 Code, § 5-604) (Am. Ord. 336, passed 4-5-83; Am. Ord. 433, passed 4-7-87;
Am. Ord. 763, passed 4-6-99)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.18 LICENSE ATTACHMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, upon issuing a bicycle license, shall also issue
a license decal or plate showing the license number assigned to the bicycle,
the name of the city and the calendar year in which issued.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause such license decal or plate to be
firmly attached to the front frame of the bicycle for which issued in such
position as to be plainly visible.
   (C)   Except in those cases where the bicycle has been dismantled and is no
longer operated on any street in the city, no person shall remove a license
decal or plate from a bicycle during the period for which issued.
(‘79 Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.19 LICENSE REPLACEMENT.
   In the event that an owner shall lose his or her license decal or plate or
the same shall be stolen or destroyed, he or she shall report the same to the
Chief of Police immediately, and the Chief of Police shall then issue to such
owner a new license decal or plate.
(‘79 Code, § 5-606)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.20 ALTERATION OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or counterfeit any license
decal or plate or other means of identification issued in conformity with this
chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 5-607) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.21 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police, or an officer assigned such responsibility, shall
inspect each bicycle before licensing the same and shall refuse a license for
any bicycle which he or she determines to be in an unsafe mechanical condition
or which fails to meet the requirements of §
73.44(A), (B) and (C) of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 5-608)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.22 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Upon the expiration of any bicycle license, the same may be renewed upon
application.
(‘79 Code, § 5-609)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
REGULATIONS
§ 73.35 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle by this title, except as to the special regulations in this chapter and
except as to those provisions of this title which by their nature can have no
application.
(Neb. RS 60-6,314(1)) (‘79 Code, § 5-610)
§ 73.36 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
directions of such signs, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(‘79 Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.37 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway,
against the curb or upon the sidewalk except in a rack to support the vehicle
or against a building or at the curb in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(‘79 Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.38 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when such
signs are posted no person shall disobey the same.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(‘79 Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.39 RIDING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who rides a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent or regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Any person who rides a bicycle shall not remove his or her feet from
the pedals and shall have at least one hand on the handlebars at all times.
   (C)   Any person who operates a bicycle shall not carry any package, bundle,
or article which prevents the operator from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315) (‘79 Code, § 5-614) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road applicable to persons operating bicycles, see
Neb. RS 60-6,314
   Limitations on overtaking and passing on the left and the like, see Neb. RS
60-6,135
   General rules and municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.40 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   No person riding a bicycle shall at any time follow fire trucks or other
emergency vehicles.
(‘79 Code, § 5-615) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.41 CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, scooter, skateboard, roller blades, or
roller skates shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle
upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
suffer or permit any person traveling upon any bicycle or roller skates to
cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle or roller skates to
such vehicle so driven and operated by him or her.
(‘79 Code, § 5-616) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 73.42 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon the roadway shall ride as near
to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B) Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall ride only in single file,
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(‘79 Code, § 5-617) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   General rules and municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.43 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebar or
in any other way impairs the safety of the operator or others.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315(3)) (‘79 Code, § 5-618) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 73.44 LAMP AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use during the hours from one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible on a clear night from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type approved by the Police Department which shall be visible on a clear night
from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front
of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red
light, visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition
to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to stop the bicycle within 25 feet of the point of initial braking
when moving at speed of 10 miles per hour on dry, level, clean pavements.
(Neb. RS 60-6,318) (‘79 Code, § 5-619) Penalty, see §
70.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 73.55 LOST OR ABANDONED BICYCLES.
   The Chief of Police will make a reasonable attempt to identify bicycles
found to be lost or abandoned and return them to the rightful owners. In those
cases where the owner cannot be identified, the bicycles will be disposed of in
the manner described in § 130.10 of this code.
(‘79 Code, § 5-620)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
§ 73.56 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The City Police Department may impound, for a period not exceeding 30 days,
any bicycle that has been used, operated or parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 5-622)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 60-6,317
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
[This chapter reserved for future legislation.]
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create ordinances related to railroads and railroad crossings,
see Neb. RS 16-211 and 16-212
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Closing hours for city parks and recreational areas; exception
Community Center
   
90.30   Ownership
   
90.31   Rentals
Swimming Pool
   
90.50   Operation and funding
   
90.51   Admission charge
   
90.52   Rentals
   
90.53   Rules and regulations
Library
   
90.70   Operation and funding
   
90.71   Rules and regulations
   
90.72   Damaged and lost books
   
90.73   Book removal
PARKS
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the municipal parks and other recreational areas.
These parks and recreational areas are maintained by the Public Works
Department of the city. The Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the municipal parks and other
recreational areas of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 3-401)
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any person
to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy any
building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of
the city parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on or
litter the city parks or other public grounds.
(‘79 Code, § 3-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-230
   Related provision, see Neb. RS 16-697.01
   Littering prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-525
§ 90.03 CLOSING HOURS FOR CITY PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All city parks and recreational areas owned by the city shall be
closed to the public between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. from Sunday
through Saturday except that Central Park, Central Park East and Central Park
West shall be closed to the public between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
and 6:00 a.m. from Sunday through Saturday.
   (B)   In the case of a city sponsored event or activity that terminates
after closing hours, the city park or recreational area wherein the particular
event or activity occurs shall be closed 30 minutes after the cessation of said
event or activity.
(‘79 Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 273, passed 6-3-80; Am. Ord. 1498, passed 9-19-23)
COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 90.30 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and manages the Community Center through the Recreation
Director and the City Administrator. The Recreation Director shall have the
power to hire and supervise such employees as he or she may deem necessary and
shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the Community Center
as may be proper for its efficient management. All actions by the Recreation
Director shall be under the supervision and control of the City Council and
City Administrator and in the event that the City Council should fail or
neglect to appoint a Recreation Director, the City Administrator shall be the
Recreation Director ex officio.
(‘79 Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-6,100
§ 90.31 RENTALS.
   The Recreation Director may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the Community
Center, make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or
organization of the Community Center. All rental charges, rules and regulations
regarding the Community Center shall be in compliance with the policy statement
of the City Council directed to the use of the Community Center. Such statement
is on file with the City Clerk. Nothing herein shall be construed to permit or
allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, or national
origin in the classification of persons and organizations for rental purposes.
(‘79 Code, § 3-702)
SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.50 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The Administrator
shall manage the swimming pool. The Administrator, through the Recreation
Director, shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise the swimming
pool manager and such employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper
for its efficient operation. All actions by the Administrator and Director
shall be under the supervision of the City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Injury to property, see Neb. RS 16-697.01
§ 90.51 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The charges shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and shall
also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for public
inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner, provided that nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin in the
classification of persons for admission charges.
(‘79 Code, § 3-502)
§ 90.52 RENTALS.
   The Recreation Director and Pool Manager shall have the authority to rent
the municipal swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as they may
in their discretion see fit, subject to the review of the City Council and the
Administrator. The City Council shall prescribe rules and regulations for such
rentals and shall require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be
in attendance during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on
file at the office of the City Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the
municipal swimming pool.
(‘79 Code, § 3-503)
§ 90.53 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Administrator and Recreation Director shall have the power and authority
to enact and post at the pool rules and regulations for the protection of those
using the swimming pool and for the efficient management thereof. They may
suspend pool privileges and enforce such other sanctions for the violation of
such rules and regulations.
(‘79 Code, § 3-504)
LIBRARY
§ 90.70 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city library through the City Administrator
and the City Librarian and with the advice of the Library Board of Advisors.
The Administrator shall have the power and authority to appoint the librarian
and to hire such other employees as he or she may deem necessary. The Library
Board of Advisors may recommend such other rules and regulations for the
operation of the library as may be proper for its efficient operation. All
actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Council.
(‘79 Code, § 3-601) (Am. Ord. 328, passed 11-3-82)
Statutory reference:
   Power to establish public libraries and reading rooms, see Neb. RS 16-251
   Authority to create; powers and duties, see Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219
§ 90.71 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board of Advisors shall recommend rules and regulations for the
governing of the city library for the preservation and efficient management
thereof. The City Council shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties, and
forfeitures for injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property
or for failure to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be
collected in civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay
any assessments.
(‘79 Code, § 3-602) (Am. Ord. 328, passed 11-3-82)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact regulations, see Neb. RS 51-205
   Civil actions authorized, see Neb. RS 51-214
§ 90.72 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the City Council may
assess.
(‘79 Code, § 3-603)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to determine and impose penalties, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 90.73 BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the City Council to take a book from the library without the consent of the
librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing a book
from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(‘79 Code, § 3-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to determine and impose penalties, see Neb. RS 51-211
CHAPTER 91: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Prevention
   
91.01   National fire codes
   
91.02   Fire code enforcement
   
91.03   Enforcement
   
91.04   Lawful entry
   
91.05   Violation notice
   
91.06   Open burning ban; waiver
   
91.07   Combustible material; storage prohibited
   
91.08   Fireplaces and indoor incinerators exempted
   
91.09   Burning materials; allowed and not allowed
Regulations
   
91.25   Equipment
   
91.26   Interference
   
91.27   Obstruction
   
91.28   Driving over hose
   
91.29   Traffic
   
91.30   False alarm
   
91.31   Pedestrians
   
91.32   Fire hydrants required
   
91.33   Access required for fire apparatus
Poisonous and Flammable Gases and Explosives
   
91.45   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives
   
91.46   Storage permit required
   
91.47   Blasting permit required
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.01 NATIONAL FIRE CODES.
   Incorporated herein by reference into this code are the standards
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, known as the National
Fire Codes, as amended from time to time. This code shall have the same force
and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the National Fire Codes
is on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
(‘79 Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-222
   Zoning and building regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-
933
   Powers and duties of State Fire Marshal, see Neb. RS 81-502
§ 91.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(‘79 Code, § 7-202)
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Fire Chief or Police
Chief or their authorized agents.
(‘79 Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 137, passed - -)
§ 91.04 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
at all reasonable hours to enter to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often
as necessary, the structure for the purpose of examination in harmony with
applicable statutes, including but not limited to the Natural Gas Pipeline
Safety Act and Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substance Storage and Handling
Act, and ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are likely to
cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city ordinances
affecting the hazard of fire.
(‘79 Code, § 7-203)
§ 91.05 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the city ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(‘79 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn trash or other combustible material
outside of a permanent structure, and there shall be an open burning ban on all
bonfires, outdoor rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land in
the City of La Vista except and unless a special permit is obtained.
(‘79 Code, § 7-205)
   (B)   (1)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires,
outdoor rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
      (2)   The Fire Chief of the City Fire Department may waive the open
burning ban under subsection (1) of this section for an area under his or her
jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (3)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in his or her
jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone intending to
burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been waived shall
notify the Fire Department and Sarpy County Dispatch Center prior to starting
the burn and when the burn has been extinguished.
      (4)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions
acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under subsection (2) of
this section.
      (5)   The Fire Department may charge a fee, the amount of which shall be
set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council and a current record of
which shall be maintained by the City Clerk, for each such permit issued. This
fee shall be remitted to the City Council by deposit with the City Treasurer
for inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under subsection (2) of this section
in the course of such state's or political subdivision's official duties.
(‘79 Code, § 7-206) (Ord. 137, passed - -; Am. Ord. 632, passed 9-19-95; Am.
Ord. 1162, passed 1-17-12) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Statewide ban; exemptions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 91.07 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL; STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, store, maintain, use, transport, or dispense
in the city, including but not limited to in any building or on any premises
any waste, refuse, debris, rubbish, garbage, chemical, substance, or material
that is combustible or otherwise poses a hazardous risk to life, health, or
property in a manner that is not in accordance with any applicable law or that
enhances the danger of fire or an event that is hazardous to health, life, or
property. Storage of combustible or hazardous materials must be reported in
accordance with applicable law, as amended from time to time.
(‘79 Code, § 7-207) (Ord. 137, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 FIREPLACES AND INDOOR INCINERATORS EXEMPTED.
   Burning in fireplaces and incinerators opening exclusively into the interior
of any permanent structure is exempt from the burning ban as well as grilling/
outdoor cooking appliances and burn pits but must follow rules regarding
burning materials which are allowed and not allowed.
(‘79 Code, § 7-209) (Am. Ord. 1057, passed 5-6-08; Am. Ord. 1064, passed 7-15-
08)
§ 91.09 BURNING MATERIALS; ALLOWED AND NOT ALLOWED.
   (A)   Except for commercial products expressly manufactured for starting a
fire in a wood burning appliance, whether internal or external, no person shall
cause or allow any of the following materials to be burned in a wood burning
appliance:
      (1)   Garbage;
      (2)   Treated wood;
      (3)   Plastic products;
      (4)   Rubber products;
      (5)   Waste petroleum products;
      (6)   Paints and paint solvents;
      (7)   Coal;
      (8)   Glossy or colored paper;
      (9)   Particle board;
      (10)   Any other material not intended by a manufacturer for use as fuel
in a solid fuel burning device.
   (B)   Fuel allowed by this section shall include, but shall not supersede
manufacturer's specifications for a specific wood burning appliance:
      (1)   Seasoned wood (containing no more than 20% moisture by weight);
      (2)   Solid fuel (any wood or other non-gaseous or non-liquid fuel)
approved by the manufacturer for the appliance.
(Ord. 1059, passed 5-6-08)
REGULATIONS
§ 91.25 EQUIPMENT.
   No person other than the Fire Chief, members of the Fire Department, or the
Fire Chief's designee shall at any time handle, misuse, or interfere with any
of the fire apparatus belonging to the city.
(‘79 Code, § 7-101) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.26 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their
duty.
(‘79 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.27 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the owner
or claimant.
(‘79 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking prohibited, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 91.28 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(‘79 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 91.29 TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or Assistant
Fire Chief, shall (i) approach or park closer than 500 feet to any fire hydrant
to which a hose is connected; or (ii) follow closer than 500 feet to any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm or other emergency; or (iii)
drive into or park such vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm or other emergency. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to vehicles carrying medical personnel, members of the Fire
Department, or emergency vehicles.
(‘79 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 91.30 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause to raise any false alarm of fire.
(‘79 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   False reporting prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-907
   False fire alarms prohibited, see Neb. RS 35-520
§ 91.31 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(‘79 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Interference with firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.32 FIRE HYDRANTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building shall be constructed or construction commenced thereon
upon any lot or tract of ground within the city limits or within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city unless it shall be protected by sufficient approved
type fire hydrants so that not less than one fire hydrant shall be within 450
feet of all portions of such building, said distance to be measured along
public or private roadways accessible to Fire Department mechanized vehicles.
In single family areas, no two hydrants shall be separated by more than 600
feet, said distance to be measured along public or private roadways accessible
to Fire Department mechanized vehicles. In commercial and apartment,
condominium or other multifamily type areas, no two hydrants shall be separated
by more than 400 feet, said distance to be measured along public or private
roadways accessible to Fire Department mechanized vehicles. All such hydrants
shall be located as near to a street intersection as possible for easy access
and shall be constructed within the street right-of-way such a way so as not to
be closer than one foot to the normal sidewalk location within said street
right-of-way and constructed no closer than one foot to the curb line of the
street or other street improvement. All fire hydrants located on private
property shall have an easy access and shall be located so as to be clearly
visible from the street or private drive. Hydrants so installed shall be
provided with a continuous water supply sufficient to provide not less than 800
gallons per minute for one hydrant and not less than 1250 gallons per minute
where two or more hydrants are required. Such water supply shall be available
at a flowing pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch at the steamer
hydrant outlet. In all future construction where compliance with this section
requires hydrants in addition to the regularly spaced hydrants supplied by the
Metropolitan Utilities District, such additional hydrants will be installed at
the expense of the owner of the property requiring them.
   (B)   Plans and specifications for all proposed hydrant installations shall
be submitted to the City Council and the Fire Chief of the city for approval
before such installations shall be made. A copy of such approved plans and
specifications shall be kept on file with the City Clerk. Another copy shall be
sent to the Metropolitan Utilities District by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 7-108) (Ord. 155, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 ACCESS REQUIRED FOR FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all premises that the Fire Department may
be called upon to protect in the event of fire or other emergency and which
also have one or more of the following characteristics:
      (1)   A location that is more than 150 feet from a public road, or
      (2)   A height of more than 30 feet and a location that is more than 50
feet from a public road, or
      (3)   A floor area of at least 2500 square feet on any one level.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to existing premises and
conditions as well as to conditions that arise after the effective date of this
legislation, except that premises and conditions existing legally prior to the
original effective date of this legislation that are not in strict compliance
with the provisions hereof may be permitted to continue if they do not
constitute an unreasonable hazard to the life or property in the opinion of the
Fire Chief.
   (C)   Fire lanes shall be provided for all premises that are subject to this
section so that all buildings of combustible or flammable storage are readily
accessible to fire apparatus. All fire lanes required by this section shall
meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Minimum width of 24 feet.
      (2)   Maximum grade of 10%.
      (3)   Road edge closest to the building must be at least ten feet from
such building.
      (4)   The radii of any curve must be at least 45 feet.
      (5)   If the fire lane is located on a dead end road that is more than
300 feed long, a turn around must be provided at the closed end that is at
least 90 feet in diameter.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on
or obstruct any fire lane. Signs shall be posted at each fire lane and shall
read as follows:
"FIRE LANE; NO PARKING AT ANY TIME;
BY ORDER OF LA VISTA MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 91.33."
      (2)   All signs shall be printed in red letters on a white background.
The designation and maintenance of fire lanes on private property shall be
accomplished pursuant to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   (E)   The city shall have emergency access and control over all fire lanes.
   (F)   A property owner may request establishment of a loading/unloading zone
when all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The building is adjacent to a public access traffic lane with a
width greater than 36 feet;
      (2)   The building is no more than 30 feet tall; and
      (3)   The business has a floor area less than 2500 square feet on any one
level.
   (G)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on
or obstruct any loading/unloading zone for a duration of greater than three
minutes. Signs shall be posted at each loading/unloading zone and shall read as
follows:
"NO PARKING; 3 MINUTE LOADING AND UNLOADING ONLY;
BY ORDER OF LA VISTA MUNICIPAL CODE §
91.33."
      (2)   All signs shall be printed in red letters on a white background.
The designation and maintenance of loading/unloading zones on private property
shall be accomplished pursuant to the direction of the Fire Chief. The loading/
unloading zone shall be designated by a yellow curb.
(‘79 Code, § 7-109) (Ord. 319, passed 8-17-82; Am. Ord. 729, passed 5-5-98)
Penalty, see §
91.99
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.45 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the city
for any period of time explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or
any form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied petroleum gas shall
register such information with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage.
The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the city
shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to register the
transfer and new location of the explosives and gases with the City Clerk. The
transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the owner shall
require registration of the new location with the City Clerk. This section
shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or less of gasoline.
(‘79 Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   State Patrol permits, see Neb. RS 28-1229
   Records required, see Neb. RS 28-1233
§ 91.46 STORAGE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to section Neb.
RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, shall file with the City Clerk
an application for an explosive material storage permit 24 hours prior to such
storage. Application for said permit shall contain all the necessary
information and documents required for the protection of the residents of the
city. The City Clerk shall issue an annual permit to the applicant upon
approval of the application by the Police Chief and Fire Chief and the payment
of the permit fee, the amount of which shall be set from time to time by the
Mayor and City Council and a current record of which shall be maintained by the
City Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials to another person within the
city shall require the person receiving the explosive materials to obtain a new
permit. The transfer of explosive materials to a new location by the owner
shall require a new permit for the new location.
(‘79 Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Fire department and fire prevention regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 16-
622
   Authority to regulate combustible materials, see Neb. RS 16-627
   State permits, see Neb. RS 28-1229
   Permit holder records, notice, and other requirements, see Neb. RS 28-1233
§ 91.47 BLASTING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the city shall apply for and secure a permit therefor
from the City Clerk 24 hours prior to such discharge. The application for said
permit shall contain all necessary information and documents required for the
protection of the residents of the city. The City Clerk shall issue a permit
upon approval of the application by the Police Chief and Fire Chief and payment
of the permit fee as set by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. Any
person securing said permit shall discharge such explosives in conformance with
the conditions specified in the permit. In no case shall any person perform
blasting operations unless in compliance with all state and local laws and
regulations and unless operating under the direct supervision of a person in
possession of a valid user's permit issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(‘79 Code, § 7-402) (Ord. 492, passed 2-6-90) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Fire department and fire prevention regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 16-
622
   Authority to regulate combustible materials, see Neb. RS 16-627
   State permits, see Neb. RS 28-1229
   Permit holder records, notice, and other requirements, see Neb. RS 28-1233
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be subject to a penalty of up to six months
imprisonment, or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both. A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(‘79 Code, § 7-501)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   County Health Board
   
92.02   Health regulations
   
92.03   Enforcement official
Nuisances
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Maintaining a nuisance prohibited
   
92.17   Abatement procedure
   
92.18   Jurisdiction
   
92.19   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
92.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.21   Dead or diseased trees
   
92.22   Water pollution prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 4-104)
§ 92.02 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspec- tions, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(‘79 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the city. It shall be his or her duty to notify the City Council and
the Board of Health of health nuisances within the city and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(‘79 Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 16-238
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act,
omitting to perform a duty or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to
be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the city;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
('79 Code, § 4-301)
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a- brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition or harborage in which
flies, rats, or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or
which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity
thereof;
      (8)   Any unsafe or unsightly building, billboard or other structure, any
old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety or
are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, dumping grounds or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground. Stagnant water is defined as water which stands upon premises in such a
manner, and over such a period of time, that it is likely to become a breeding
place for mosquitoes;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code or applicable state law;
      (13)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing or allowing to remain of
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative or partially
destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind, including any
motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery and equipment;
      (14)   Any lots or pieces of ground within the city or within the city's
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction that have (or have on adjoining streets or
alleys) any growth in excess of 12 inches of weeds, grasses or other worthless
vegetation or nuisance thereon, excluding city approved plantings, structures,
devices or facilities for purposes of weed or erosion control, neighborhood
enhancement and/or wildlife promotion or storm water quality, detention,
management or control. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this
division (14), it shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing, occupying,
or controlling any lot or piece of ground in the jurisdiction to prevent the
growth of noxious weeds or other worthless vegetation thereon, including
without limitation, cockleburs, thistles, ragweed, burdock, and wild lettuce
thereon.
(‘79 Code, § 4-301.01) (Ord. 646, passed 5-7-96; Am. Ord. 1257, passed 7-7-15;
Am. Ord. 1352, passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
Cross reference:
   Stagnant waters, weeds and litter, see §
133.01
§ 92.16 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by act or omission to erect, keep up or
continue, maintain, allow or permit any nuisance within the city or within the
city's extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
(‘79 Code, § 4-301.02) (Ord. 646, passed 5-7-96; Am. Ord. 1352, passed 7-2-19)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this subchapter, the
city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgement in the case.
('79 Code, § 4-502)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate
in the city to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Chief Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or
other city representative that the owner or occupant has failed to keep such
real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance
shall be given to the owner or the owner's or occupant's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service, first-class mail, or
certified mail. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the condition as found by the Chief Building Official,
Code Enforcement Officer, or other city representative and state that the
condition has been declared a public nuisance and that the condition must be
remedied. The notice shall specify the period of time within which the nuisance
must be abated or removed; and
         (b)   Advise of the right to appeal the determination of the city and
request a hearing before the Board of Health, for matters involving public
health, or the City Administrator, for all other matters, and the manner in
which such hearing may be requested. Any such appeal and request for hearing
shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk in the manner described in
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Within five days after the receipt of the notice described in
division (B)(1) above, the owner or occupant of the real estate may request a
hearing with the Board of Health, for matters involving public health, or the
City Administrator, for all other matters, to appeal the decision to abate or
remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City
Clerk. If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing, the City
Administrator or his or her designee shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. The hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days
after the filing of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be given by
personal service, first-class mail, or certified mail and require the owner or
occupant to appear at the specified time and place to show cause why such
condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. Upon the
date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, Board of Health for
matters involving public health, or the City Administrator (or any other
appointed officer of the city designated by the City Administrator, Mayor or
City Council) for all other matters, shall hear all objections made by the
owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Chief Building
Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or other proper city representative. A
decision on the appeal will be rendered within five business days after the
conclusion of the hearing. If after consideration of all the evidence the
appeal fails, the city may have such work done to abate or remove the nuisance.
      (3)   If the owner or occupant of the real estate within five days after
receipt of the notice described in division (B)(1) above does not request a
hearing, or fails to comply with the order to abate or remove the nuisance
within the required time, the city may have the work done.
      (4)   The costs and expenses of any work of the city to abate or remove a
nuisance pursuant to this section shall be paid by the owner. Any such costs or
expenses that are unpaid shall be subject to collection or assessment by the
city in accordance with applicable law, including without limitation, Neb. RS
16-230 for removal or abatement of nuisances relating to drainage, weeds or
litter.
      (5)   Unless otherwise specified by applicable law, notice for purposes
of this section shall be deemed to be received upon deposit in the United
States mail, postage prepaid, if by first-class mail, or upon actual receipt,
if by personal service or certified mail.
('79 Code, § 4-302)
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything in this section or elsewhere in this code to
the contrary:
      (1)   If the Chief Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or other
proper city representative determines that any public nuisance constitutes an
immediate danger to life, safety, health, or property, the city may remove or
abate the nuisance (or cause it to be removed or abated) and assess the cost
thereof to the property creating the nuisance or on which the nuisance arises,
to the extent necessary or appropriate to eliminate the immediacy and/or
magnitude of the danger, upon 48 hours personal or certified written notice to
the owner or tenant of the subject property (or the owner's or tenant's duly
authorized representative) or, in light of the immediacy or magnitude of the
danger, such lesser notice that can reasonably be provided under the
circumstances; and, in the event any public nuisance is within the scope of the
Nebraska Statutes, including without limitation, Neb. RS 16-230 or 18-1752, the
city shall proceed in accordance with the applicable provision or provisions
thereof; and the city shall further have the option to proceed in accordance
with any other applicable ordinance or state law, as amended from time to time,
with respect to any public nuisance.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by state law, the city shall have the
option to proceed under one or more applicable ordinances or state laws with
respect to any public nuisance.
(Am. Ord. 1274, passed 4-5-16; Am. Ord. 1352, passed 7-12-19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Authority to repair and remove buildings and the like, see Neb. RS 18-1722
§ 92.18 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce this City
Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of Police and
court shall extend to and the territorial application of this chapter shall
include all thereof and all territory within the corporate limits of the city
or within its exterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
(‘79 Code, § 4-303) (Am. Ord. 1352, passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 16-901
§ 92.19 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710) (‘79 Code, § 4-304)
§ 92.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise,
shall store, keep or allow to remain on such person's property or premises any
inoperable, wrecked, junked, discarded or partially dismantled motor vehicle,
provided that this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (2)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city;
      (3)   A vehicle with current motor vehicle registration and current motor
vehicle license plate properly displayed and undergoing repair in the manner
permitted by and in compliance with any applicable city zoning regulation.
   (B)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty and
the nuisance abated as provided in this chapter or as may otherwise be
authorized by law.
(‘79 Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 646, passed 5-7-96)
§ 92.21 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the city or within the city's extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the city or within the city's extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (C)   Upon determination by the Chief Building Official, Code Enforcement
Officer, or other proper city representative that the owner or occupant has
failed to keep such real estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove
such nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any. Such notice shall include the information and
shall be given in the manner required by §
92.17. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Within five days after the receipt of such notice,
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with
the city to appeal the decision to abate and remove the nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing to appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by
the City Administrator or any other appointed officer of the city from time to
time designated by the City Administrator, Mayor or City Council. The hearing
officer, based on all information presented at the hearing, shall render a
decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the
hearing. If the appeal fails, the city may have such work done to abate and
remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece
of ground within five days after receipt of such notice does not request a
hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance within the required time, the city may have such work done. The costs
and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. The city may levy and
assess all or any portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment. Unless otherwise
specified by applicable law, notice for purposes of this section shall be
deemed to be received upon deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
if by first-class mail, or upon actual receipt, if by personal service or
certified mail.
(‘79 Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 630, passed 9-5-95; Am. Ord. 1274, passed 4-5-16; Am.
Ord. 1352, passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate dead and diseased trees, see Neb. RS 16-207
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. 28-1321
Cross reference:
   Tree management, see
Chapter 94
§ 92.22 WATER POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct
or impede without legal authority any river or collection of water or to
corrupt and render unwholesome or impure any watercourse, stream or other
water.
   (B)   The standards for water quality established or adopted by the state of
Nebraska shall be presumptive evidence as to when the water is deemed to be
polluted under this section.
   (C)   Such a corruption of the water in or about the city shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon written notice to the violator by
the Board of Health. The abatement may be in addition to the penalty for water
pollution.
(‘79 Code, § 4-401) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise as specified in applicable state statute or in another
chapter or section of this code with respect to a particular violation, any
person, firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to a fine in any amount not in excess of $1,000, or imprisonment for any length
of time not to exceed three months, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(‘79 Code, § 4-501)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Street right-of-way; permitted obstructions
   
93.003   Exceptions; additional conditions; removal procedure
   
93.004   Weeds, garbage, inoperable vehicles
   
93.005   Acquisition of real property
Sidewalks
   
93.015   Requirement to keep clean
   
93.016   Notice to comply
   
93.017   Beneath
   
93.018   Maintenance
   
93.019   City construction, resolution, procedure
   
93.020   Notice to property owners
   
93.021   Repairing, replacing, widening, and reconstructing; procedure
   
93.022   Owner’s duty, failure to comply
   
93.023   Material
   
93.024   Specifications, fee, permits
   
93.025   Construction bids
   
93.026   Improper construction; work stoppage; change
   
93.027   Assessments
   
93.028   Dangerous stairway
Streets
   
93.040   Building numbering required; system
   
93.041   Numbering, size, and display of numbers
   
93.042   Number assignment, enforcement
   
93.043   Crossings
   
93.044   Widening or opening
   
93.045   Excavation
   
93.046   Driving stakes
   
93.047   Mixing concrete
   
93.048   Harmful liquids
   
93.049   Heavy equipment
   
93.050   Standard types of pavement enumerated and established
   
93.051   Official design criteria and specifications, conformity required
   
93.052   Removal of substandard paving, cost
   
93.053   Permit required for paving, repairing, resurfacing, sealing or
resealing streets within the city
   
93.054   Application for permit; permit fee
   
93.055   Permit issuance; appeal; hearing
   
93.056   Paving surety bond
   
93.057   Surfacing during winter months prohibited
   
93.058   Placement of snow prohibited
   
93.059   Driveway approaches
Curbs and Gutters
   
93.070   Permit required
   
93.071   Permit application; fee
   
93.072   Right to deny permit
   
93.073   Special permit during winter months
   
93.074   Inspection, notice, corrections
   
93.075   Duty of inspector
   
93.076   Parking only approaches prohibited
   
93.077   Maximum and minimum widths, specifications; requirements, prohibitions
   
93.078   Permit refusal and cancellation
   
93.079   Variances; standards governing
   
93.080   Appeal; hearing
   
93.081   Effect of granting permit
 
   
93.999   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply:
   CODE. The La Vista Municipal Code.
   CORNER. The point of intersection of the lines of two street curb faces
extended into the street intersection.
   CURB PARKING SPACE. A length of curb equal to 20 feet where an automobile or
other vehicle can park.
   CURB RETURN. The portion of the curb next to a driveway approach which
included the radius of curvature, or the ramp-type lug on commercial or
industrial-type pavements and which connects the driveway approach to the
street curb.
   DRIVEWAY. A place on private property for the operation of automobiles or
other vehicles.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. An area, construction, or facility between the roadway of
public streets and private property intended to provide access for vehicles
from the roadway of a public street to private property. For clarification, a
DRIVEWAY APPROACH must provide access to something definite on private property
such as a parking area, a driveway, or a door at least seven feet wide,
intended and used for the entrance of vehicles.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any use, construction, or placement in the street right-of-way
other than public infrastructure.
   OCCUPANT. The person or persons actually occupying the lot, land, or real
estate, whether he or she be tenant, lessee, or owner.
   OUTSIDE SIDEWALK LINE. A line parallel to the property line lying along the
edge of the sidewalk nearest the street, roadway, or curb; or where no sidewalk
exists, a line in the street right-of- way parallel to and four feet from the
property line.
   OWNER. The person or persons holding the legal title of record to the lot,
land, or real estate.
   PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS. Uses permitted by §
93.002 to the extent specifically permitted.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, joint stock
company, association, firm, company, or entity of any kind or nature.
   PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE. Streets, sanitary sewers, storm drainage, and other
items of infrastructure owned and maintained by the city for the benefit of the
public.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such
ROADWAY separately but not to all such ROADWAYS collectively.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of the street right-of-way between the curb
line and adjacent property line.
   STREET. A public way for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian travel in
the city.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way of dedicated streets of the
city, including but not limited to parkings, sidewalks, and paved portions of
streets.
(‘79 Code, § 8-101) (Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-20-01)
§ 93.002 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Obstructions prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person other
than the city or its designee to obstruct, encumber, or encroach upon any
street right-of-way, including but not limited to placing anything living or
nonliving, in, on, over, across, or under the street right-of-way, or allowing
it to remain, except for items of public infrastructure and those exceptions
set forth in divisions (B) through (K), inclusive, of this section.
   (B)   Exception; sidewalks and driveway approaches. Paved sidewalks and
driveway approaches in accordance with city specifications are permitted in the
street rights-of-way.
   (C)   Exception; sidewalk space; grass and appropriate substitutes. Turf
grass or an appropriate commercial grade landscaping substitute, such as
decorative gravel, river rock, tree bark or mulch, bricks, or pavers, is
permitted in the unpaved area of the sidewalk space. Such turf grass and
appropriate substitutes must be maintained in a neat and orderly appearance. In
no event shall grass be allowed to grow longer than 12 inches. Materials used
in lieu of turf grass shall be of good quality, uniform and suitable for such
use, taking into account the surrounding neighborhood. Gravel and river rock
used generally must be three inches in diameter or less. Bricks and pavers must
be installed and maintained at grade, without mortar, cement, or similar
materials, and level with abutting pavement, including but not limited to
curbs, sidewalks, and driveway approaches, in a manner that provides for stable
footing and easy removal and access on, in, across, under, and over the street
right-of-way.
   (D)   Exception; sidewalk space; trees, shrubs, bushes, landscaping, and
sprinkler systems; permit.
      (1)   Trees, shrubs, bushes, landscaping, and lawn sprinkler systems
placed in the street right-of-way after December 31, 2001 ("permit date")
pursuant to a permit issued by the City Building Inspector to the owner of the
lot or ground adjacent to the right-of-way are permitted. Any person desiring a
permit under this division (D)(1) must submit a written application to the
Building Inspector on forms provided by the city. Permits for trees, shrubs,
bushes, and landscaping after the permit date shall be subject to approval of
the city and only may be granted for subdivision entrances in, on, or along
boulevards or street medians or to provide a buffer between zoning districts.
Only official trees, shrubs, and bushes pursuant to §
94.02 may be planted in the street right-of-way. Sprinkler systems in the
street right-of-way shall have all lines installed below grade, and the systems
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with specifications established
by the Building Inspector. Sprinkler heads in the street right-of-way shall be
positioned as close to the right-of-way boundary lines as possible, but shall
not be closer than two feet to any curb, nor spray on, across, or over any
sidewalk, street, or pavement in the street right-of-way.
      (2)   Trees, shrubs, and bushes growing and sprinkler systems installed
in the street rights-of-way on or before the permit date shall be allowed to
remain if the owner of the lot or ground adjacent to the right-of-way files a
written application for a permit, along with payment of any applicable fee,
with the City Building Inspector on forms provided by the city no later than
December 31, 2003, and the Building Inspector issues a permit, provided,
however, that no such tree, shrub, bush, or sprinkler system shall be replaced
unless the requirements of division (D)(1) above are satisfied. No fee shall be
charged to obtain a permit if the application is properly completed and filed
on or before December 31, 2002. For applications filed between January 1, 2003,
and December 31, 2003, the required fee shall be $100 and must be paid when the
application is filed with the city.
   (E)   Exception; trees, bushes, and shrubs near street right-of-way; setback
requirements. Trees, bushes, and shrubs on any lot or piece of ground adjacent
to the street right-of-way are an obstruction to the extent they are so close
to the right-of-way as to interfere with utilities, use of the right-of-way, or
public improvements thereon. In order to prevent such obstructions, reasonable
setback requirements are necessary. Accordingly, trees, bushes, and shrubs on
any piece of ground or lot adjacent to the street right-of-way are permitted so
long as:
      (1)   Trees are planted and growing no closer than two feet to the lot
line adjacent to the street right-of-way, regardless of whether there is a
sidewalk abutting the lot or piece of ground; and
      (2)   Said trees, bushes, and shrubs do not interfere with use of the
street right-of-way or any public work, improvement, utility lines, or
equipment on, in, over, across, or under the street right-of- way or any work
thereon. On and after the permit date, only species described in §
94.02 may be planted on lots or grounds along street right-of-way with respect
to any tree, bush, or shrub, any part of which is in, on, over, across, or
under said right-of-way.
   (F)   Exception; trees, bushes, and shrubs in or near: street right-of-way;
clearance requirements. The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground
adjacent to any street right-of-way over which there extends the branches or
limbs of any tree, bush, or shrub (regardless whether or not it is planted in
the street right-of-way or adjacent lot or ground) shall at all times keep said
branches and limbs trimmed to the height of at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and at least 15 feet above the surface of the roadway.
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of such premises to keep all such
trees, bushes, and shrubs maintained, pruned, and trimmed at all times to
comply with the requirements of this division (F), as well as divisions (D) and
(E) of this section and Chapter 94 of this code.
   (G)   Exception; temporary obstructions; permit. Temporary obstruction of
the street right-of-way is permitted for the erection, construction,
reconstruction, wrecking, or repairing of any building or part thereof, or
construction or repair of any pavement or utility within any street right-of-
way, pursuant to and for the period of time allowed in a permit issued by the
City Building Inspector. Any person desiring a permit under this division must
submit a written application to the Building Inspector on forms provided by the
city. Permits shall not be granted for more than obstruction of the sidewalk
space and one-third of the roadway of the street right-of-way adjacent to the
premises on which the building or pavement is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired or work performed. Permits shall be subject
to the applicant maintaining a safe and suitable worksite and walkway within
the street right-of-way, protected and lighted in the manner required by the
Building Inspector. Any permit holder shall have the site, including but not
limited to all excavations, work, equipment; and dangerous conditions,
protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and barricades
and warning lights at night; and the failure to do so shall result in the
halting of work until compliance to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector
and/or revocation of permit.
   (H)   Exception; utilities. Sewers, utilities, telecommunications and cable
lines, and equipment in, on, across, over, or under the street right-of-way are
permitted pursuant to a current permit, license, or agreement with the city.
   (I)   Exception; mailboxes. Standard mailboxes comprised of a single metal
pole and box satisfying applicable standards and specifications of the United
states Postal Service, as revised from time to time, are permitted in the
sidewalk space. Mailboxes of other construction in the sidewalk space as of the
permit date are permitted to remain so long as they are in conformity with
applicable standards and specifications of the United States Postal Service, as
revised from time to time, provided, however, that any such mailbox shall be
replaced with a standard mailbox satisfying the requirements of the first
sentence of this division (I) in the event the mailbox is removed, repaired,
modified or replaced or, in the determination of the City Building Inspector,
is in need of replacement or substantial modification or repair.
   (J)   Exception; fences and retaining walls. Any fence or retaining wall, or
any part thereof, installed or encroaching in, on, under, over, or across the
street rights-of-way on or before the permit date shall be allowed to remain,
if the owner of the lot or ground adjacent to the right-of-way files a written
application with the City Building Inspector (on forms provided by the city) no
later than December 31, 2003, and the Building Inspector issues a permit,
provided, however, that, in the event that any such fence or retaining wall is
removed, repaired, modified, or replaced or is in the determination of the
Building Inspector in need of replacement or substantial modification or
repair, it shall be moved, removed, or relocated so that it is no longer
installed or encroaching in, on, under, over, or across the street right-of-way
or any part thereof.
   (K)   Exception; areas zoned Mixed Use City Centre District or C-3 Highway
Commercial Office Park District. So much of the street right-of-way in areas
zoned Mixed-Use City Centre District or C.3 Highway Commercial Office Park
District as may be subject to such uses or improvements designated or
authorized in a permit issued by the Building Inspector in connection with the
following, subject to such conditions as specified in applicable laws, rules,
or regulations, or in the permit or any agreement required by the Building
Inspector in connection with said permit, provided, however, the proposed
improvements or uses do not interfere with use by the general public of
portions of the right-of-way designated in the permit, agreement, or otherwise
by the Building Inspector for ordinary pedestrian purposes:
      (1)   Improvements or property in, on, over or beneath the street right-
of-way, of occupants or an owners association of property adjacent to such
street right-of-way, including without limitation, landscaping, streetscaping,
street furniture, or retaining walls;
      (2)   Improvements or property in the air space over any street right-of-
way of buildings of other improvements adjacent to the street right-of-way,
including without limitation, pedestrian overpasses, awnings, balconies or
signs that project over such street right-of-way; or
      (3)   Improvements or property in, on, over, or beneath the sidewalk
space of occupants of restaurants adjacent to such sidewalk space for dining.
(`79 Code, § 8-102) (Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 1294, passed 9-6-
16)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-207 and 16-210
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
Cross-reference:
   Tree management, see
Chapter 94
§ 93.003 EXCEPTIONS; ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS; REMOVAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permitted obstructions on, in, over, under, or across the street
right-of-way pursuant to §
93.002 are further subject all of the following divisions (B) through (I) of
this section.
   (B)   Any exception listed in divisions (B) through (I) of this section
shall constitute an obstruction, though permitted to the extent specified.
Except for utilities described in §
93.002(H), any person who obtains a permit for, places, installs, locates,
maintains, or uses any obstruction on, in, across, over, or under said right-
of-way, shall maintain it so as not to interfere with public use of the street
rights-of-way, public improvements, or utilities and in accordance with all
applicable provisions of the code. Further, said person shall be solely liable
and responsible for all claims, losses, liabilities, costs, and expenses
whatsoever, arising out of or resulting from the obstruction, including but not
limited to property damage, installation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
reinstallation, removal, personal injury, and death. Utilities described in §
93.002(H) shall be maintained by and be the responsibility and liability of the
person placing them in the right-of-way or obtaining a permit, license, or
agreement with the city. The city shall have no obligation or liability
whatsoever with respect to any obstruction placed in the street right-of-way
pursuant to this subchapter or its damage or removal.
   (C)   Any obstructions placed or allowed to continue in the street right-of-
way pursuant to this subchapter shall be maintained in a neat and orderly
appearance and in good repair and condition by the owner or occupant of the
property fronting on that portion of the street right-of-way on which the
obstruction is located. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to include
in any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter such terms and conditions as
he or she determines necessary or advisable, including but not limited to
specifications and/or requirements regarding maintenance, repair, and removal,
so long as not in conflict with any express provision of this subchapter or
other provision of the code. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter to the contrary, the Building Inspector shall be authorized to
revoke any permit issued under this subchapter for failure to comply with any
term or condition of the permit upon ten days advance written notice to the
owner of the lot or ground adjacent to the street right-of-way on which the
particular obstruction is located, in which case, the obstruction shall be
unpermitted, prohibited, and subject to removal under this subchapter.
   (D)   (1)   The city retains sole, full, and absolute right and authority to
regulate and use (and authorize the use of) street rights-of-way, and nothing
in this subchapter or in any permit or agreement issued or entered into by the
city shall constitute or be interpreted as:
         (a)   Creating any license, right, or interest whatsoever in any
person to any street right-of-way;
         (b)   Abrogating or limiting the right of the city, its licensees, or
designees to perform any public works or public improvements at any time;
         (c)   A waiver of any other applicable code, ordinance, or regulation
of the city or of the city's right to require any permit thereunder;
         (d)   A waiver or release of any rights of the city in or to the
street rights-of-way; or
         (e)   Limiting the city's rights or authority with respect to said
street rights-of-way.
      (2)   Any permission granted pursuant to this subchapter to place any
obstruction in any right-of-way or allow it to remain shall be subject to all
other laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city and may be entirely
or partially revoked or revised at any time by the City Council.
   (E)   Any dead or diseased tree in the street right-of-way, or any
obstruction that is not permitted or is in violation of this subchapter shall
be deemed to be a nuisance and subject to removal. The city may at any time
remove or direct the removal of any obstruction:
      (1)   That is deemed to be a nuisance hereunder;
      (2)   That in the sole determination of the city interferes with use of
the street rights-of-way by the city or its designees, franchisees or
licensees, creates or increases risk of death, injury, or property damage, or
is damaged, deteriorated, or in disrepair; or
      (3)   As is necessary for the city, its designee, franchisee, or licensee
to perform any public work or improvement.
   (F)   In addition to any other authority of the city with respect to its
rights-of-way under the code, state statute, or other applicable law, the
Building Inspector or his or her designee shall be authorized to remove,
without any prior notice, any obstruction described in division (E) of this
section and not planted or installed below grade in the street right-of-way, or
in the event of an emergency or when immediate removal is required in the
interests of public health, safety, or welfare. In either case, the Building
Inspector or his or her designee shall be authorized to, upon 30 days advance
written notice, levy and assess all or any portion of the cost and expense of
the work to the persons placing the obstruction in the street right-of-way or
to the property owners or occupants of the lots or pieces of ground fronting on
that portion of the street right-of-way on which the work is done.
   (G)   In all cases other than described in division (F) of this section,
notice shall be given prior to removal of an obstruction from the street right-
of-way. In the case of any dead or diseased trees, notice must be given
describing the nuisance, to abate and remove the trees, and of the right and
manner to request a hearing. In all other cases, the notice shall describe the
reason that removal is required and direct such removal. All notices shall also
state that the obstruction must be removed by the owner or occupant, at his or
her sole cost and expense (or at the expense of the person placing the
obstruction in the right-of-way), by the specified date, and if not removed by
that date, the city shall have the option to remove it or have it removed at
the owner's or occupant's sole cost and expense (or at the expense of the
person placing the obstruction in the right-of-way). Notices hereunder shall be
given personally or by certified mail to each owner, or his or her duly
authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any, of the lots or pieces of ground
fronting on the portion of the street right-of-way on which the obstruction is
located. In the event a property owner is not a resident of the county in which
the lot or piece of ground is located, the notice shall be sent to the address
listed on the tax rolls at the time the notice is first given.
   (H)   Removal of any obstruction pursuant to divisions (E) through (G) shall
be at the sole cost and expense of the person placing the obstruction in the
right-of-way, or of the property owners or occupants of the lots or pieces of
ground fronting on that portion of the street right-of-way on which the work is
done. If within 30 days after notice of removal in division (G) of this section
is given, neither the owner nor the occupant complies with the order to abate
and remove the obstruction (and in the case of dead or diseased trees, neither
the owner nor the occupant requests a hearing), the City Building Inspector or
his or her designee may do the work or have it done at the sole cost and
expense of the persons placing the obstruction in the street right-of-way, or
of the owners or occupants of the lots or pieces of ground fronting thereon.
Any amount that is not paid shall be levied and assessed upon the lots or
grounds specially benefitted from the work as special assessment.
   (I)   A permit to place, maintain, or continue any obstruction in the right-
of-way pursuant to this subchapter shall only be issued to the owner of the lot
or ground fronting on that portion of the street right-of-way on which the
obstruction is located and shall be subject to all of the provisions of this
subchapter, which provisions shall be deemed part of and incorporated into each
such permit as if set forth therein and shall be enforceable against the owner
and all successors in interest to the lot or ground. Except as otherwise
provided in §
93.002, no fee shall be charged to obtain a permit.
(`79 Code, § 8-103) (Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 1275, passed 4-5-
16)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-207 and 16-210
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
Cross-reference:
   Tree management, see
Chapter 94
§ 93.004 WEEDS, GARBAGE, INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   Refer to §
133.01 of this code.
(`79 Code, § 8-104) (Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-20-01)
§ 93.005 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   The city, when acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent
domain, shall do so:
   (A)   Only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by action
taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing; and
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
   (B)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 25-2501 to 25-2506, except that the requirements
of those sections shall not apply to:
      (1)   Water transmission and distribution pipelines and their
appurtenances, and common carrier pipelines and their appurtenances; or
      (2)   Acquisition of property for a proposed project involving the
acquisition of rights or interests in ten or fewer separately owned tracts, or
when the acquisition is within the corporate limits of the city; or
      (3)   Municipalities which acquire property through the process of
platting or subdivision or for street or highway construction or improvements.
(‘79 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 633, passed 9-19-95; Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-20-01)
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.015 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day, provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of the city
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(‘79 Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 16-661 through 16-666
§ 93.016 NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   The city shall, during the month of October of each year, publish or
cause to be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation within
the city a general notice setting forth the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to the above general notice, notice to abate and remove
such snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substances shall be given to each owner or
owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service
or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner
or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
city or fails to comply with the order to abate or remove the snow, sleet, mud,
ice or other substances the city may have such work done. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner: If unpaid for two months
after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted as special assessments; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (C)   At all times thereafter until new snow, sleet, mud, ice or other
substances accumulate the following year, the city shall have the right,
without providing further notice to such owner, agent, occupant, tenant, or
person in possession, charge or control of such lot or ground, to continue
removing all snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substances.
(‘79 Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 28, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1075, passed 10-7-08; Am.
Ord. 1276, passed 4-5-16)
§ 93.017 BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between the lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have
been obtained from the City Council. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the City Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the city sidewalks as herein contemplated, the City Council may
require the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the benefit
of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason of such
use. The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may
designate.
(‘79 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-210
§ 93.018 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to the
lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair and
in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands abutting on any
street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the City Council shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published.
(‘79 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.019 CITY CONSTRUCTION, RESOLUTION, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council may deem it necessary and expedient so to
do, it may, by resolution, require a sidewalk to be constructed in front of or
adjacent to any premises, along any street, avenue, or boulevard in the city.
The resolution may but need not be in the following form:
   “CITY OF LA VISTA
   SIDEWALK RESOLUTION        
   BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
   OF THE CITY OF LA VISTA:
“That it is hereby declared necessary and expedient that sidewalks be
constructed and laid to the established grade, along and upon the place
provided for sidewalks, upon the side of the streets, avenues, or boulevards in
the City of La Vista, of such materials and width as is herein designated and
adjoining the following described premises, to-wit:
   (Here street address and legal descriptions)
“Such sidewalks to be constructed under the supervision of the Public Works
Department of the City of La Vista (or other appropriate agency) and in
accordance with Ordinance No.       of the City of La Vista and the plans and
specifications and requirements as prepared by the City Engineer and adopted
and approved by the Mayor and City Council; provided that the owner or owners
of the premises herein described shall have thirty (30) days from and after the
publication of notice hereof in which to lay or construct said sidewalks or to
commence the laying or construction of said sidewalks as provided herein; and
provided, further, that if the said owner or owners fail, neglect, or refuse to
lay or construct said sidewalks or to enter upon the laying or constructing of
said sidewalks as herein ordered within thirty (30) days after the last
publication of such notice, and then and thereafter the City of La Vista will
cause the same to be laid or constructed as herein ordered and the cost thereof
will be thereafter levied and assessed by the Mayor and City Council as a
special assessment against the afore-described premises.
“Said sidewalks shall be constructed of the following materials and to the
following width, to-wit:
“The City Engineer's estimate of the construction cost of said work and
improvement is $           per lineal foot of sidewalk and $            in the
aggregate.”
   (B)   The City Council may, in its discretion, before considering such
resolution, request the City Clerk to notify or cause to be notified the owners
or occupants of premises in front of or adjacent to which a sidewalk is to be
laid, constructed, or widened of the date, time, and place such resolution will
be considered so they may appear and be heard if they so desire, but the
failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such proceedings or any
special assessments thereafter levied for such sidewalk or improvement;
provided, further, that it shall be proper for the City Council, in its
discretion, by one concurrent resolution to require the construction or
widening of sidewalks along and adjoining to any number of pieces of property;
and that in such concurrent resolution the City Council shall name and
designate but one kind of material as the material to be used in the
construction of the sidewalks ordered therein.
(‘79 Code, § 8-305) (Am. Ord. 1276, passed 4-5-16)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 16-661 through 16-666
§ 93.020 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Upon the passage of any resolution directing the construction of any
sidewalk, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to cause to be published once
in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city of a notice directed to
the owners of the property described in said resolution, notifying such owners
of the passage of said resolution and that they will have 30 days from and
after the date of publication of such notice within which to construct the
sidewalks so ordered or cause the same to be done, and further notifying said
owners that if they fail to lay and construct said sidewalks or cause the same
to be done within 30 days after publication of such notice, then and in that
case the city will cause said sidewalks to be laid and constructed, the cost of
which will be levied and assessed thereafter by the Mayor and City Council of
the city as a special assessment against their said premises. Said notice shall
also contain the City Engineer's estimate of costs of said work or improvement,
and no special assessment in excess of the amount of said estimate shall be
assessed against said property.
   (B)   In addition to the publication of notice as herein above provided, a
copy of the notice so published shall be either served upon the occupant in
possession of the property to be improved or shall be posted upon said premises
at least 20 days prior to the commencement of construction.
   (C)   The notice may be substantially in the following form:
   “NOTICE
   To the owners of the several pieces of real estate hereinafter described:
You, and each of you, are hereby notified that on the ____ day of
________________, 20__, the City Council of the City of La Vista, passed, and
on the _____ day of ______________, 20__, the Mayor of said City approved La
Vista Sidewalk Resolution number _____, by which it has been declared and
ordered necessary and expedient that sidewalks be constructed and laid to the
established grade, along and upon the place provided for sidewalks adjoining
the foregoing described premises, said sidewalks to be constructed under the
supervision of the Public Works Department of the City of La Vista and in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Mayor and City Council
and on file with the City Clerk and to be constructed of
_______________________ and to be _______ feet in width.
You, and each of you, are further notified that you will have 30 days from and
after the date of publication of this notice in which to lay and construct said
sidewalks as ordered in said resolution; and you are further notified and
warned that if you fail, neglect and refuse to lay and construct said
sidewalks, as in said resolution ordered, within 30 days after the date of
publication of this notice, then, and in that case, the City of La Vista will
cause the same to be laid, constructed or widened, as ordered in said
resolution, the cost of which will be levied and assessed by the City Council
of the City of La Vista, as a special assessment against your said premises.
The City Engineer's estimate for the cost of said work or improvement is
$______ per lineal foot of sidewalk and $___________________ in the aggregate.”
   (D)   Return shall be in the following form:
“RETURN
         STATE OF NEBRASKA   )
         COUNTY OF SARPY   )   SS
         CITY OF LA VISTA      )
I, __________________________________ of the City of La Vista, Sarpy County,
Nebraska, hereby certify that I served a copy of the within sidewalk resolution
on __________________________ by delivering to
_________________________________, the occupant in possession of the property
involved, personally, a true and correct copy of the within resolution with all
the endorsements thereon (or by posting a copy of said resolution on said
property) on the _____ day of ____________________, 20___, said day being at
least 20 days prior to the date of commencement of the construction of said
sidewalk improvement.
                                       _________________________”
   (E)   The publisher of such legal newspaper or his or her agent shall file
with the City Clerk an affidavit of the publication of the resolution as soon
as the publication herein required is completed. Such publication, together
with the appropriate return showing that either a copy of said resolution was
served on the occupant in possession of the property involved or that there was
posted a copy thereof on said premises as required by law shall be deemed good
and sufficient notice to the owners of the property, resident or nonresident,
in front of, abutting or adjacent to which the sidewalk is to be constructed.
The affidavit of the printer or his or her agent shall be prima facie evidence
of the publication herein required and shall be preserved and made a part of
the records of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-306) (Ord. 60, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1276, passed 4-5-16)
§ 93.021 REPAIRING, REPLACING, WIDENING, AND RECONSTRUCTING; PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary that an existing sidewalk
be repaired, widened, replaced or reconstructed, the same procedure shall be
followed as that set forth in this subchapter for the construction of a new
sidewalk. However, in the case of repairs, the City Council may prescribe a
shorter period of time in which the owner must comply.
(‘79 Code, § 8-307) (Ord. 60, passed - -)
§ 93.022 OWNER’S DUTY, FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Upon giving of the notice it shall be the duty of the owner or owners
of the said property in front of, abutting on or adjacent to which the said
sidewalks are ordered constructed, repaired, replaced, widened or reconstructed
to cause the same to be done within the time specified in said notice and in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If any owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed, after
notice has been given as provided in this subchapter to construct, repair,
replace, widen or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time limit in the notice
given in such case, the city shall proceed at once to have such sidewalk
constructed, repaired, replaced, widened or reconstructed as the case may be,
and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot or piece of land and
collected as provided by law.
(‘79 Code, § 8-308) (Ord. 60, passed - -)
§ 93.023 MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks on either side of the streets and avenues of the city, in
front of or along any lot or piece of land, abutting upon the same, which shall
be hereafter constructed, reconstructed or replaced shall be of a concrete
specified by the Mayor and City Council, the City Engineer, or Building
Inspector. No person shall construct, reconstruct or replace any sidewalk of
any other material within the limits of the city. That portion of a sidewalk
within, or considered to be a part of the driveway may be overlaid with asphalt
in compliance with city specifications established for sidewalks. All sidewalks
shall be at least four inches in depth, unless in, on, or abutting any area,
tract, or lot zoned any commercial or industrial classification, in which case
sidewalks shall be at least six inches in depth.
(‘79 Code, § 8-309) (Ord. 60, passed - -; Am. Ord. 431, passed 4-7-87) Penalty,
see §
93.999
§ 93.024 SPECIFICATIONS, FEES, PERMITS.
   (A)   All concrete sidewalks hereafter laid, constructed, or reconstructed
along any street or avenue in the city shall be four inches in depth in, on, or
abutting any area, tract, or lot zoned any residential classification; shall be
six inches in depth in, on, or abutting any area, tract, or lot zoned any
commercial or industrial classification; and shall be built in conformity with
such other specifications as may be prepared by the Mayor and City Council, the
City Engineer, or the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Any person desiring to construct or to cause to be constructed any
sidewalk on any street or avenue abutting his or her property in the city shall
obtain a permit as hereinafter provided, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
Application for the permit shall be made in writing to and filed in the office
of the City Clerk. The application shall in each case be accompanied by a
permit fee in an amount which shall be set from time to time by the Mayor and
City Council, a current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk,
and shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along which it is
desired to construct the sidewalk. The City Clerk shall issue the permit unless
good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied; provided, that if it
is desired to construct a sidewalk other than at the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the City Clerk shall submit the application to
the Mayor and City Council, who shall determine whether the permit shall be
granted or denied. When a permit is issued for the construction of a sidewalk,
the Building Inspector, or other person appointed by the City Council, shall
approve the location, grade and elevation of the sidewalk, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk
at any other location, grade or elevation than that so approved.
(‘79 Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 96, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the city shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct any
sidewalk as hereinbefore provided, and the cost of the work shall in the
aggregate exceed $30,000, then the work shall be awarded pursuant to public
notice and letting as provided by law.
(‘79 Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 60, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1280, passed 4-19-16)
Statutory reference:
   City engineer; public works; prepare estimate of cost; board of public
works; powers; contracts; procedure; city council; powers and duties; public
emergency, see Neb. RS 16-321
   Bids required, see Neb. RS 16-649
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 16-661 through 16-666
   Construction and other contracts; cost estimate; sealed bids; when;
exception, see Neb. RS 18-2442 et seq.
§ 93.026 IMPROPER CONSTRUCTION; WORK STOPPAGE; CHANGE.
   In case any lot owner or owners of a piece of land within the city, under
notice given or otherwise, constructs a sidewalk in violation of this
subchapter, the Public Works Department or Building Inspector may stop the work
of such construction and order the same to be made in accordance with this
subchapter and the work already done to be changed, and on the failure of such
owner to change any such work, the City Clerk shall forthwith change the work
and the expense of the same shall be assessed and taxed to said lot and
collected as provided by law.
(‘79 Code, § 8-312) (Ord. 60, passed - -)
§ 93.027 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall certify to the City Council a detailed
schedule of all sidewalks laid, widened or rebuilt and the cost of same from
which the City Council may be aided in determining the amount to be assessed as
a special assessment against each lot or piece of ground; and the City Engineer
shall certify such other facts as may be necessary to enable the City Council
to make the proper special assessments. The City Engineer shall also certify to
the City Council the acceptance of any sidewalks so improved or what other
action is taken with reference to the sidewalk. The City Engineer shall
allocate the cost of sidewalk improvements to the adjoining lots or parcels of
land and prepare all necessary data for assessment sheets.
   (B)   Assessments as provided for in this chapter for the construction,
repairing, replacing, widening or reconstruction of sidewalks shall be levied
and collected pursuant to the provisions of and the manner provided for in Neb.
RS 16-666, as amended, and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(‘79 Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 150, passed - -)
§ 93.028 DANGEROUS STAIRWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellar way, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, provided that all existing stairways, open cellar ways,
open basement ways or open entrances thereto in said sidewalks, pavements or
streets may be permitted to remain from and after the passage, approval and
publication of this code if said person owning or using said opening in the
sidewalk or street shall satisfy the Public Works Director or City Engineer
that the same is properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable
material, and shall furnish the city with a bond in such amount as the City
Council may set for the benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or
damage by reason of the use of said stairway, cellar way or open basement way.
(‘79 Code, § 8-314) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-207
STREETS
§ 93.040 BUILDING NUMBERING REQUIRED; SYSTEM.
   All buildings situated within the city or within the zoning jurisdiction of
the city shall be numbered in the manner and according to the following plan
designated by this section:
   (A)   Streets having an east to west alignment shall be progressively
numbered from east to west. The initial or starting line for numbering such
buildings shall be 60th Street. Buildings situated in the first block west of
such starting line shall be assigned numbers in the 6000 series with 100 being
added to the numbering series for each block west of the starting line in such
a manner that the assigned number series will increase by 1200 for each mile
west from the starting point.
   (B)   Buildings situated on streets having a north to south alignment shall
be progressively numbered from north to south. The initial or starting line for
the numbering of buildings situated on north to south streets shall be Harrison
Street. Buildings situated in the first block south of Harrison Street shall be
assigned numbers in the 6900 series with 100 being added to the number series
for each block south of the starting line, in such a manner that the numbering
series will increase by 1200 for each mile south from the starting point.
   (C)   The odd numbers shall be put on the south and east sides of the
streets and the even numbers on the north and west sides of the street allowing
not more than 22 feet to each number.
(‘79 Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 205, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-614
§ 93.041 NUMBERING, SIZE, AND DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   The figures used to number buildings shall be not less than two and one-half
inches in height and of a color which renders them clearly visible against the
background upon which they are displayed. Each owner or occupant of any
building situated on any street shall cause to be displayed in a conspicuous
place upon such building the building numbers assigned to it as provided in §
93.042 hereof. Such numbers shall be clearly visible from the street.
(‘79 Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 205, passed - -)
§ 93.042 NUMBER ASSIGNMENT, ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to assign all numbers
required by this subchapter and to insure that all new buildings which may
hereafter be erected, or changes in the fronts of buildings already erected,
shall be assigned with numbers to which they shall be entitled under this
subchapter by the owners thereof, and in all such cases, the figures shall
correspond with the plan or system contained in this subchapter. In case any
owner or occupant shall refuse or neglect to number or renumber his or her
building, as provided for by this subchapter, after having received a written
notice from the Building Inspector to do so within ten days, the Building
Inspector may place or cause to be placed the proper number thereon, the cost
of which shall become a lien against the property. Decisions of the Building
Inspector made in the enforcement of this subchapter may be appealed to the
Board of Building Appeals as provided in this code.
(‘79 Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 205, passed - -)
§ 93.043 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Public Works Director or his or her designee, such street,
avenue and alley crossings as the City Council shall deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the City Clerk, said City Clerk shall refer such
application to the Public Works Director or his or her designee who shall
investigate and make his or her recommendation to the City Council. Action by
the City Council on such application, whether the application is approved or
rejected, shall be considered final.
(‘79 Code, § 8-404)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
§ 93.044 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The City Council shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley or
lane within the limits of the city and to create, open and improve any new
street, alley or lane, provided that all damages sustained shall be ascertained
in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(‘79 Code, § 8-405) (Am. Ord. 255, passed 12-4-79)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
   Eminent domain powers, see Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724
§ 93.045 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee authorizing such excavations.
(‘79 Code, § 8-406) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
§ 93.046 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief city street official.
(‘79 Code, § 8-407) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal maintenance and repair responsibility, see Neb. RS 16-610
§ 93.047 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(‘79 Code, § 8-408) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal maintenance and repair responsibility, see Neb. RS 16-610
§ 93.048 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to flow, leak, or run
on, onto, over, or into any street, gutter, or right-of-way any waste,
gasoline, kerosene, oil, or any hazardous material as defined in this Municipal
Code §
51.001.
(‘79 Code, § 8-409) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Municipal maintenance and repair responsibility, see Neb. RS 16-610
§ 93.049 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges, with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided that, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the city police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type
studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-casting
with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than 7/64 of an
inch between November 1 and March 15, provided that school buses and emergency
vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall
be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will
not injure the streets. It shall be permissible to use a rubber tired crane
with a fixed load when such vehicle will be transported on a state highway or
on any road within the corporate limits of the city, the city in which the
crane is intended to be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the city, and such vehicle's gross weight does
not exceed the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-6,294(10). It shall be permissible
to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for
safety because of snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to
slide or skid.
(‘79 Code, § 8-410) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Tire requirements, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288(2)(j)
§ 93.050 STANDARD TYPES OF PAVEMENT ENUMERATED AND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The standard types of pavement enumerated in this section, to the
exclusion of all other types, are hereby established and adopted as the
standard types of pavement for the improving of all streets and alleys in the
city and areas outside the city limits within one-half mile thereof.
   (B)   Whenever, after the effective date of this subchapter, any street or
alley in the city and areas outside the city limits within one-half mile
thereof shall be improved by paving, one of the following standard types of
pavement shall be used:
      (1)   Portland cement concrete,
      (2)   Asphaltic concrete surface with Portland cement concrete base when
specifically approved in writing by the Mayor and City Council,
      (3)   Asphaltic concrete surface with flexible base when specifically
approved in writing by the Mayor and City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 8-411) (Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 93.051 OFFICIAL DESIGN CRITERIA AND SPECIFICATIONS, CONFORMITY REQUIRED.
   The Mayor and City Council of the city shall establish design criteria and
specifications governing the thickness, design and construction of all types of
pavement designated in §
93.050, and when such design criteria and specifications have been adopted by
resolution of the Mayor and City Council and filed with the City Clerk they
shall be the official design criteria and specifications of the city and shall
be incorporated into and known as the Standard Paving Specifications of the
city. All paving, surfacing and resurfacing of the streets and alleys in the
city and the areas outside the city limits within the zoning jurisdiction
thereof shall, subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter, conform
with the Standard Paving Specifications of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-412) (Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.052 REMOVAL OF SUBSTANDARD PAVING, COST.
   The Public Works Director or his or her designee is hereby authorized and it
shall be his or her duty to order the removal of or to remove any paving that
does not conform to the Standard Paving Specifications of the city and which
was so installed after the effective date of this subchapter. The costs of such
removal shall be borne by the person, persons or corporation who installed such
substandard pavement, and the city shall have the right of action in the proper
court of jurisdiction to recover such costs.
(‘79 Code, § 8-413) (Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 93.053 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PAVING, REPAIRING, RESURFACING, SEALING OR
RESEALING STREETS WITHIN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to
pave, surface, repair, resurface, seal, or reseal any street or alley in the
city and areas outside the city limits within the zoning jurisdiction thereof
without a permit from the city to do so as provided in this subchapter.
(‘79 Code, § 8-414) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.054 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Before any person, firm, corporation or other entity shall enter upon
any work pertaining to the paving, surfacing, repairing, resurfacing, sealing
or resealing of any street or alley in the city and areas outside the city
limits within the zoning jurisdiction thereof, application must be made to the
City Clerk for a permit to do so. Said application shall set forth the nature
of the work, the location of the work, the portion of the street right-of-way
which will be affected by the work, the cost or contract price of the work, the
name and address of the contractor performing the work and such other
information as the City Council may by resolution from time to time require to
be given.
   (B)   If the Clerk be satisfied that the proposed work is to be performed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, then he or she shall issue
the permit as applied for, upon payment of the applicable fee, the amount of
which shall be set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council and a
current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk, and, in cases
where the work to be performed is paving, the surety bond required by §
93.056.
   (C)   If the Clerk be not so satisfied, he or she shall refuse to issue such
permit but shall endorse his or her refusal on the application and return it to
the applicant.
   (D)   Should the Clerk issue such permit on the application of applicant as
herein set out, the applicant accepts it as his or her own risk, and if the
intended work is in fact contrary to the provisions of this subchapter or any
other law, the performance of said work is nevertheless unlawful.
(‘79 Code, § 8-415) (Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.055 PERMIT ISSUANCE; APPEAL; HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial or cancellation by the City
Clerk of any permit herein provided for may appeal from such issuance, denial
or cancellation to the City Council by filing with the Clerk a notice of appeal
and payment to the Clerk of the applicable fee, the amount of which shall be
set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council and a current record of
which shall be maintained by the City Clerk, which fee the Clerk shall pay into
the General Fund. The Clerk, at least five days prior thereto, shall notify the
appealing party of the date his or her appeal is to be heard. At such hearing,
the City Council will rehear the application, make such investigation and hear
such witnesses as they determine necessary and grant or deny the application.
(‘79 Code, § 8-416) (Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 93.056 PAVING SURETY BOND.
   Every person, firm, corporation, or other entity who shall pave any street
or alley in the city and areas outside the city limits within the zoning
jurisdiction thereof shall, prior to entering upon said work, file with the
City Clerk a corporate surety bond in the penal amount of the cost or contract
price of said work, said bond to be conditioned upon said work being performed
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Standard Paving
Specifications of the city. The city shall be a named obligee on said surety
bond, which bond shall be approved as to form by the City's Legal Counsel.
(‘79 Code, § 8-417) (Ord. 56, passed - -)
§ 93.057 SURFACING DURING WINTER MONTHS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall pave, surface, resurface,
seal or reseal any street or alley in the city and areas outside the city
limits within the zoning jurisdiction thereof during the months of December,
January, February and March unless the prior written consent of the Public
Works Director or designee is first obtained.
(‘79 Code, § 8-418) (Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.058 PLACEMENT OF SNOW PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation at
any time to place snow or ice upon any street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
place snow or ice upon any sidewalk other than emergency snow removal provided
by the city, county, or state.
   (C)   In the event any person, persons, firm, or corporation violates the
provisions of division (A) of this section and the city replows the street in
which such snow has been placed, such violator shall, in addition to any other
penalties imposed in relation to violations of any provisions of this chapter,
be responsible for the cost of such second plowing. The city shall send a
written statement to such violator showing the amount due to the city, and such
amount shall be payable within 15 days after the date it is mailed by the city
and, if not paid within such period, shall accrue interest at the highest rate
allowable.
(‘79 Code, § 8-419) (Am. Ord. 427, passed 11-14-86) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.059 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The city may require the owner of property served by a driveway
approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to repair or
replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or otherwise
deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause damage to
or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the city may cause
such work to be done and assess the cost upon the property served by such
approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (‘79 Code, § 8-420) (Ord. 377, passed 1-15-85)
CURBS AND GUTTERS
§ 93.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, deface, break out or remove any
curbing of any street or to construct any driveway approach within the zoning
jurisdiction without first having obtained the permit provided for in §
93.071. Further, any such activity except that authorized by said permit shall
also be unlawful.
(‘79 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 50, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.071 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application and fees. For the purpose of ingress and egress into and
from private property, permits may be granted by the Building Inspector (or
such other person designated by the City Council) for the cutting of the
necessary curbing and the construction of the driveway approach. Any person
desiring such permit shall first make written application at the office of the
City Clerk, which application shall contain a statement of the exact location
of the proposed driveway approach, together with a statement of the length of
curb to be cut, of the width of the driveway approach at the edge of the
roadway if there is no curb and such other pertinent information as may be
required by the City Council. Prior to the issuance of each permit, the
applicant shall pay the applicable fee per lineal foot of driveway approach
measured at the edge of the roadway. The applicable fee will be greater in the
event that at the time of improvement of the roadway a curb was constructed
with the necessary curb cut. Fees shall be set from time to time by the Mayor
and City Council, and a current record of applicable fees shall be maintained
by the City Clerk,
   (B)   Conformity requirements. Any person receiving a permit pursuant to
this section shall perform and conduct the work permitted under and in
conformity with the rules, regulations, design criteria and specifications set
by the City Council. All driveway approaches shall be constructed in conformity
with the sidewalk grade and elevation as established by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Expiration of permits. Any person receiving a permit pursuant to this
section shall proceed, at his or her own expense, to do the work authorized by
such permit. If the authorized work is not completed within 60 days of the date
the permit is issued, such permit shall expire and become void at the
expiration of the 60 day period. Before such work can be resumed, a new permit
shall be obtained in the same manner and form as the original permit.
   (D)   Extension. If the Building Inspector (or such other person designated
by the City Council) has granted a written extension of the effective duration
of a permit, the permit shall not expire and become void pursuant to division
(C) of this section, but shall remain in full force and effect throughout the
period of extension. Such permit shall, however, expire on the last day of such
extension, and no work shall be completed or resumed thereafter without first
obtaining a new permit in the same manner and form as the original permit.
   (E)   City Curb Milling and Pavement Cutting Program agreements. In lieu of
obtaining a permit and performing curb cutting in accordance with divisions (A)
through (D) above, any resident or business and the city may enter into an
agreement under the city's Curb Milling and Pavement Cutting Program to have
the city provide curb milling and pavement cuts. Any such agreement shall be
subject to payment of the applicable fee to the city for such services, which
shall be due upon application for building permit. Fees shall be set from time
to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of applicable fees
shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 8-502) (Ord. 73, passed - -; Am. Ord. 413, passed 5-20-86)
§ 93.072 RIGHT TO DENY PERMIT.
   The application for a permit under this subchapter shall not be construed to
vest any rights thereto in the applicant or limit the right of the city,
through its Council, to deny the permit applied for when the issue of such a
permit would create a traffic hazard, endanger public safety or would not be
beneficial to public welfare. The City Clerk shall refuse permits to persons
who fail or refuse to obey reasonable rules and regulations necessary in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(‘79 Code, § 8-503) (Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 93.073 SPECIAL PERMIT DURING WINTER MONTHS.
   No curb, gutter or driveway approach across or through any curb or sidewalk
shall be laid during the months of December, January, February or March without
the person constructing the same first receiving a special permit from the
Building Inspector (or such other person designated by the City Council).
(‘79 Code, § 8-504) (Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 413, passed 5-20-86)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.074 INSPECTION, NOTICE, CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   Requests for inspections. Every person constructing public curbs,
gutters or driveway approaches shall notify the Building Inspector or the
Public Works Director, or designee of either of them, when the work is ready
for inspections at the following times during the construction process:
      (1)   Not less than one working day prior to the time that the removal of
the existing curb and gutter and the setting of forms for the proposed driveway
approach have been completed. The first inspection must be made prior to the
pouring of any concrete.
      (2)   Not more than two working days after the concrete has been poured.
   (B)   Acceptance or nonacceptance. Acceptance of the work will not be made
until after the inspection provided for in subsection (A)(2) has been
completed. If upon investigation and inspection it is determined that the curb,
gutter or driveway approach is not according to the city approved
specifications provided for in the construction of such curb, gutter or
driveway approach, the Building Inspector or the Public Works Director, or
designee of either of them, may refuse to accept and approve the work and
require that any errors in the construction be corrected at once and before the
acceptance of the work.
   (C)   Cure of errors. In the event such errors in construction are not
corrected within ten days of notice of nonacceptance by the Building Inspector
or the Public Works Director, or designee of either of them, such notice to be
mailed to the address shown in the application for the permit and to specify
the reasons for nonacceptance; the City Council may order such work corrected
or removed and the city may recover the cost thereof in a civil action against
the person to whom the permit was issued or may levy a special assessment equal
to such cost against the property abutting the area of the curb cut or driveway
approach.
(‘79 Code, § 8-505) (Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 413, passed 5-20-86)
§ 93.075 DUTY OF INSPECTOR.
   For the purpose of making the inspections provided for in this subchapter,
the Building Inspector shall make the inspection of curbs and gutters and
private driveways as provided for in this subchapter, which inspections shall
be made according to the rules and regulations, design criteria and
specifications furnished by the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-506) (Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 413, passed 5-20-86)
§ 93.076 PARKING ONLY APPROACHES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend, or permit
or cause to be constructed, altered or extended, any driveway approach which
can be used only as a parking space or area between the curb and private
property.
(‘79 Code, § 8-507) (Ord. 50, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.077 MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM WIDTHS, SPECIFICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS,
PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No driveway approach shall exceed 40 feet in width as measured along
the outside sidewalk line.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, no
driveway approach on any major street or main thoroughfare in the city shall
exceed 24 feet measured at the outside sidewalk line if it will normally be
used in such a manner that vehicles can only back out of or into the driveway
in order to use it. For drives wider than 24 feet, a separate exit and entrance
drive or a means of turning the vehicle around on private property must be
provided.
   (C)   For the purpose of constructing a driveway approach, no curb or
opening or section broken out shall exceed 52 feet. If the roadway has no curb,
the maximum width of the driveway approach at the edge of the roadway shall not
exceed 52 feet.
   (D)   For the purpose of constructing a new driveway approach, no curb cut,
opening or section broken out or removed shall be less than 18 feet. Where
there is no curb, the width of the driveway approach at the edge of the road
way shall not be less than 18 feet.
   (E)   No portion of a driveway approach, except the curb return, shall be
constructed within 18 feet of a corner and in no case closer than two feet to
the property line extended without written permission from the Public Works
Director, his or her designee, or the Building Inspector.
   (F)   Where more than one driveway approach on a street front serves a
single parcel of land, there shall be at least one curb parking space between
driveway approaches.
   (G)   Where the Building Inspector determines that a drainage culvert is
needed under a driveway approach, any person constructing such a driveway
approach shall install a drainage culvert meeting the dimensions and
specifications specified by the City Council and City Engineer or Building
Inspector.
   (H)   Where the Building Inspector determines that the construction of a
driveway will affect the flow of water into a drainage inlet, any person
constructing a driveway approach shall reconstruct the drainage inlet to the
specifications and dimensions specified by the City Council and City Engineer
or Building Inspector.
   (I)   No driveway approach shall interfere with city facilities such as
street lighting poles, traffic signal standards, signs, catch basins, hydrants,
crosswalks, bus loading platforms, utility poles, fire alarm supports,
underground pipes or ducts or other necessary street structures.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to bridge any curb or fill any gutter of any
street.
   (K)   For the purpose of constructing a new driveway or when removing
curbing for any reason, all openings shall be made by the use of curb cuts
rather than breaking or chiseling out the curbing. The minimum driveway
construction details shall be as follows:
      (1)   The driveway approach shall consist of not less than six inches in
thickness of FL60 air-entrained, Portland cement, concrete pavement. The curb
and gutter section shall be constructed to not less than the thickness of the
existing roadway pavement.
      (2)   Where curb and gutter is removed to allow construction of a new
driveway approach or reconstruction of an existing driveway approach, the
minimum width of removal shall be two feet as measured from the back of the
curb to the sawcut removal line. Whenever a longitudinal or transverse joint in
the existing roadway pavement lies less than four feet from the proposed
removal limits, then the removal shall extend to such existing joints. Sawcuts
in existing pavements shall be made to not less than one half of the existing
roadway pavement thickness.
      (3)   Where the existing roadway pavement contains an asphaltic concrete
pavement overlay, the overlay shall be removed to at least six inches beyond
the pavement removal limits. The asphaltic concrete overlay shall be replaced
by the Public Works Director to the extent that is existed previously with a
mixture type and tack coat approved by the Building Inspector.
      (4)   The driveway approach shall be constructed with grades such that
drainage in the gutter continues to flow down the gutter line. The approach
shall slope upward from the gutter so that the approach elevation is equal to
or above the existing top of curb elevation at the sidewalk edge nearest the
roadway. The driveway approach shall contain curbs between the existing roadway
curbs and the sidewalk edge nearest the roadway to prevent storm runoff from
running behind the roadway curbs. It may be necessary to remove and replace
existing sidewalk adjacent to the driveway approach to achieve such grades.
Where existing grades make compliance with the above requirements impractical,
the Building Inspector may allow deviations and will issue instructions on an
alternative configuration.
      (5)   The driveway approach shall contain a thickened edge to match the
thickness of the existing roadway pavement.
      (6)   The construction details and the above requirements are illustrated
in the "Standard Driveway Approach Details" on file with the City Clerk, a copy
of which may be obtained from the Building Inspector.
(‘79 Code, § 8-508) (Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 413, passed 5-20-86)
§ 93.078 PERMIT REFUSAL AND CANCELLATION.
   The Building Inspector shall refuse any further permits to any person to
build curbs, gutters and private driveways until errors in construction in
previous work have been corrected or adjusted. The Building Inspector may also
cancel any permit at any time when the continuation of the right under the
permit constitutes a traffic hazard or any condition not beneficial to the
public welfare. When any such permit for the cutting of a curb or constructing
a driveway approach has been canceled, surrendered or terminated, the permit
holder or the owner, at the time of the cancellation, surrender or termination
of the permit, of the property abutting the area of the curb cut or driveway
approach, shall be responsible for the cost necessary to replace the curb and
the costs necessary to restore the sidewalk to the level of the top of the
restored curbing. This obligation shall be a condition upon which permits shall
be issued.
(‘79 Code, § 8-509) (Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 93.079 VARIANCES; STANDARDS GOVERNING.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to grant in writing variances from the
provisions of this subchapter; provided, that they first determine if the
following conditions are present:
   (A)   The exception of variance desired arises from peculiar physical
conditions not ordinarily existing in similar districts in the city or is due
to the nature of the business or operation on the abutting property.
   (B)   The exception or variance desired is not against the public interest,
particularly safety, convenience and general welfare.
   (C)   The granting of the permit for the exception or variance will not
adversely affect the right of adjacent property owners or tenants.
   (D)   The strict application of the terms of this subchapter will work
unnecessary hardship on the property owner or tenant.
(‘79 Code, § 8-510)
§ 93.080 APPEAL; HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial or cancellation by the Building
Inspector of any permit herein provided for may appeal from such issuance,
denial or cancellation to the City Council by filing with the Clerk a notice of
appeal and payment to the Clerk the applicable fee, the amount of which shall
be set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council and a current record of
which shall be maintained by the City Clerk, which fee the Clerk shall pay to
the General Fund. The Clerk, at least five days prior thereto, shall notify the
appealing party of the date his or her appeal is to be heard. At such hearing,
the City Council will rehear the application, make such investigation and hear
such witnesses as they determine necessary and grant or deny the application.
(‘79 Code, § 8-511) (Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 93.081 EFFECT OF GRANTING PERMIT.
   The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be deemed or construed to
authorize any construction or improvement not in conformity with any provision
of this subchapter.
(‘79 Code, § 8-513) (Ord. 50, passed - -)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified in applicable state statute or in another chapter
or section of this code with respect to a particular violation, any person,
firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter, including
but not limited to any neglect or refusal to comply therewith or opposition to
the enforcement thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon
conviction thereof be subject to a fine in any amount not in excess of $500, or
imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed three months, or both, in the
discretion of the court, provided, however, that the penalty for violating any
of the terms or provisions os §§
93.070 et seq. shall upon conviction thereof be a fine in any amount not in
excess of $500 in the discretion of the court. Every day on which a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate violation hereunder.
(‘79 Code, §§ 8-512 and 8-701) (Ord. 50, passed - -; Am. Ord. 426, passed 11-3-
86)
CHAPTER 94: TREE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Tree, bush, and shrub species to be planted
   
94.03   Distance from utility lines
   
94.04   Care and removal
   
94.05   Tree topping
   
94.06   Obstruction, pruning, removal
   
94.07   Dead or diseased trees
   
94.08   Removal of stumps
   
94.09   Assessment for costs of pruning or removal
   
94.10   Abuse or mutilation
   
94.11   Protection of trees
   
94.12   Work ordered or done by city
   
94.13   Arborists license and bond
   
94.14   One and four year tree plan
   
94.15   Limited in power to incur liability
   
94.16   Annual report
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The La Vista Park and Recreation Advisory Board.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access,
except within the street right-of-way.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
within the street right-of-way.
(‘79 Code, § 8-601)
Cross reference:
   Parks, see §§
90.01 et seq.
§ 94.02 TREE, BUSH, AND SHRUB SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The city shall maintain a list of tree, bush, and shrub species, listed by
common name, constituting the official tree, bush, and shrub species for the
city. This listing of trees, bushes, and shrubs shall be maintained at city
hall. This official list will be updated on a regular basis and approved by the
City Council with recommendation from the Park and Recreation Advisory
Committee. Except as otherwise permitted pursuant to §
93.002, only species approved as street trees, bushes, and shrubs may be
planted within the street right-of-way, or along the street right-of-way if
branches are to extend into said right-of- way. See §§
93.002 and
93.003 for other related requirements. Only those species approved as park
trees shall be planted in public parks and other areas owned by the city to
which the public has free access.
(‘79 Code, § 8-602) (Am. Ord. 640, passed 12-19-95; Am. Ord. 850, passed 11-20-
01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 DISTANCE FROM UTILITY LINES.
   No street or park trees, except for those expressly approved by the
Committee for such purposes, and those for which a permit has been issued by
the city pursuant to §
93.002(D), may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line,
sewer line, transmission line, or other utility line, wire, or main. No street
tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant, except for any
street tree for which a permit was issued by the city pursuant to §
93.002(D).
(‘79 Code, § 8-603) Am. Ord. 850, passed 11-20-01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city shall have the right but not the obligation to plant, prune,
maintain and remove all street trees and shall have the exclusive right to
plant, prune, maintain and remove park trees as may, in its judgment, be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of the street right-of-way.
   (B)   The city may but shall not have the obligation to remove or cause or
order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with an
injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(‘79 Code, § 8-604)
§ 94.05 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or entity, other than the City's
Public Works Department, to top, prune or in any way cut or damage a park tree,
and no person, firm, or entity, other than the City's Public Works Department,
shall top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property without
first obtaining a permit from the city to do so. Topping is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Topping of street trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes and topping of street trees necessary to prevent growth interfering with
or obstructing utility wires are exempt from this provision.
(‘79 Code, § 8-605) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 OBSTRUCTION, PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees, shrubs and bushes within the city shall be pruned or caused
to be pruned by the owner or occupant when such trees or shrubs obstruct the
light from any street lamp, obstruct the visibility of any traffic control
device or sign, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks or obstruct
the view of any street or alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any
overhanging branches or limbs should be 15 feet above all streets and eight
feet above sidewalks.
   (B)   All shrubs and hedges defined as street trees in §
94.01 shall be kept trimmed by the abutting property owner at least two feet
back from all curbs, sidewalks, driveways or alleys; and the same shall at all
times be kept trimmed to a height not greater than 30 inches above the top of
the curb, unless the city shall have, upon written application of the owner or
occupant, determined that a greater height would not constitute a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
(‘79 Code, § 8-606) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   All trees and shrubs within the city shall be pruned or removed when such
trees or shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property or harbor insects or
disease which constitute a threat to other trees or shrubs within the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-607) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross reference:
   Dead or diseased trees, §
92.21
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground
so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(‘79 Code, § 8-608) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 ASSESSMENT FOR COSTS OF PRUNING OR REMOVAL.
   Should the city prune or remove any tree that is in violation of this
subchapter, the city may collect the cost of such work from the owner or
occupant of the private property upon which the offending tree is situated or
which abuts on the street right-of- way upon which it is situated, in the
manner provided by provided by §§
93.002 and
93.003 of this code.
(‘79 Code, § 8-609) (Am. Ord. 850, passed 11-20-01)
§ 94.10 ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   Unless specifically authorized by the city, no person shall intentionally
damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any street tree or park tree; attach
any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to such trees;
allow any gaseous liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to
come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such
fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of such trees. The preceding
restrictions do not apply to proper planting, staking and guying practices or
to the topping of street trees under the circumstances authorized by §
94.05.
(‘79 Code, § 8-610) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All street trees or park trees near any excavation or construction of
any building, structure or street work shall be guarded with a substantial
fence, frame or box not less than four feet high and eight feet square, and all
construction materials, soil or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
This shall be the responsibility of the persons or firms doing the construction
work.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches or lay any
drive within ten feet of any street or park tree without first obtaining
written permission from the city.
   (C)   No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public
property of the city any stone, brick, sand, soil, concrete or other material
which may impede the free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of
any street tree or park tree, except by written permission of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-611) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 WORK ORDERED OR DONE BY CITY.
   Written permission shall not be required for any tree, shrub or hedge
planting, pruning, spraying or removing ordered or done by the city; however,
all such work shall be done in conformance with the requirements of §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 8-612) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first providing the city with evidence of possession of adequate
liability insurance for bodily injury and property damage indemnifying the city
or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors
as herein described.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. No license shall be
required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors.
(‘79 Code, § 8-613) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 ONE AND FOUR YEAR TREE PLAN.
   In addition to the duties and responsibilities conferred upon the Board, it
shall be the further duty and responsibility of the Board to develop and
present to the Mayor and City Council, each year, no later than June 1 of each
year, a One- and Four-Year Tree Plan recommending the location of new or
replacement trees to be planted within the city limits. The City Council may
approve said One- and Four- Year Tree Plan, modify same or reject same in whole
or in part as the City Council may deem in the best interest of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-614)
§ 94.15 LIMITED IN POWER TO INCUR LIABILITY.
   Neither the Board nor any member thereof shall incur any financial liability
in the name of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 8-615)
§ 94.16 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall render annually, by June 1 of each year, a full report of
its work to the Mayor and City Council.
(‘79 Code, § 8-616)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified in applicable state statute or in another chapter
or section of this code with respect to a particular violation, any person,
firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter, including
but not limited to any neglect or refusal to comply therewith or opposition to
the enforcement thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon
conviction thereof be subject to a fine in any amount not in excess of $500, or
imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed three months, or both, in the
discretion of the court.
(‘79 Code, § 8-701) (Am. Ord. 426, passed 11-3-86)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Running at large
   
95.02   Enclosures
   
95.03   Care of animals
   
95.04   Keeping of wild animals
   
95.05   Pitting animals; definitions; prohibitions
   
95.06   License tags
   
95.07   Removal of tags
   
95.08   Wrongful licensing
   
95.09   Owner defined
   
95.10   Proclamation
   
95.11   Maximum number allowed
   
95.12   Capture impossible
   
95.13   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; definitions
   
95.14   Destruction of property
   
95.15   Seizure and confinement
   
95.16   Contracting for animal control services
   
95.17   Dog kennels, catteries and pet stores
   
95.18   Animal excrement; removal required
   
95.19   Potentially dangerous domestic animal; determination
   
95.20   Reckless owner
   
95.21   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; spaying or
neutering; microchip identification and license required
   
95.22   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; proof of
insurance
   
95.23   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; classes required
   
95.24   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; leash, muzzle and
harness required
   
95.25   Dangerous domestic animals; confined
   
95.26   Dangerous and potentially dangerous domestic animals; impoundment
   
95.27   Dangerous domestic animals at large; destruction
   
95.28   Dangerous domestic animals; failure to comply
   
95.29   Impoundment of certain animals during enforcement proceedings
Cats
   
95.30   License application
   
95.31   License fee
   
95.32   Vaccination - required
Dogs
   
95.45   License application
   
95.46   License fee
   
95.47   Vaccination - required
   
95.48   Barking and offensive
   
95.49   Females in estrus
   
95.50   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs, service dogs; exempt from license tax
   
95.51   Prohibited treatment against police dogs
   
95.99   Penalty
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any
animal, or any person having the charge, custody or control thereof, to permit
a horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine or other animal to be driven or run at
large on any of the public ways and property, upon the property of another or
to be tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to
reach or pass into any public way.
(‘79 Code, § 6-201)
   (B)   Fowl. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens,
turkeys, geese or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits.
(‘79 Code, § 6-203)
   (C)   Dogs, cats and rabbits.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter “running at large” shall mean:
         (a)   Any dog or cat found off the premises of the owner and not under
control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain,
wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint; and
         (b)   Any rabbit found off the premises of the owner and not confined
in a fenced yard or separate enclosure.
(‘79 Code, § 6-121)
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or harborer of any dog, cat or
rabbit to prevent such animal from running at large within the corporate limits
of the city. No owner or harborer of any dog, cat or rabbit shall fail to
exercise the proper care and control of any such animal to prevent it from
running at large, by way of a chain, fence or other physical means. Evidence
that such dog, cat or rabbit was found at liberty off the premises of its owner
or harborer shall be prima facie proof of the violation of this section by the
owner or harborer. It shall be the duty of the city police or authorized animal
control subcontractor of the city to cause any dog, cat, or domesticated rabbit
found to be running at large within the city to be taken up and impounded.
(‘79 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 283, passed 4-11-81; Am. Ord. 283, passed 9-1-81; Am.
Ord. 312, passed 7-20-82) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see Neb. RS 16-235 and 16-240
§ 95.02 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(‘79 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 CARE OF ANIMALS.
   The following guidelines shall apply in reference to animal care:
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animals with sufficient
wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air,
shelter space and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (D)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as a
prize for or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition,
as an inducement to enter a place of amusement or as an incentive to enter into
any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting
trade.
   (E)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal
shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
appropriate. Said person shall immediately report such injury or death to the
animal's owner if appropriate and shall at once report the accident to the
appropriate law enforcement agency or to the local humane society.
   (F)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal,
provided that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his or her own
property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substance.
(‘79 Code, § 6-204) (Ord. 439, passed 5-19-87) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Wild animals, definition. Wild animals shall be defined as any living
member of the animal kingdom, including those born or raised in captivity,
except the following: human beings, domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with
wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or
margays), farm animals, rodents and captive-bred species of common cage birds.
   (B)   Wild animals, keeping of. It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
possess or have custody on his or her premises any wild or vicious animal for
display, training or exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee,
unless permission from the city is granted otherwise. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet. The city or
the city's designated animal control provider shall have the power to release
or order the release of any wild animal kept in violation of this chapter.
(‘79 Code, § 6-205) (Ord. 438, passed 6-16-87) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PITTING ANIMALS; DEFINITIONS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for such purpose;
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and.witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Any person who violates division (B)(1) or (B)(2) shall be guilty
of a Class IIIA felony and the sentencing court shall make such orders and have
such authority as provided by state law.
Neb. RS 28-1005, Neb. RS 28-1019)
('79 Code, § 6-206)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in division
(C)(2)(b) of this section,
ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means equipment, products, and materials of any
kind that are used, intended for use, or designed for use in the training,
preparation, conditioning or furtherance of the pitting of an animal against
another as defined in division (A) of this section. ANIMAL FIGHTING
PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog's grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
         (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment.
products, or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in this state.
      (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor and the sentencing court shall make such orders and have
such authority as provided by state law.
(Neb. RS 28-1005.01, Neb. RS 28-2019)
(Am. Ord. 1143, passed 5-3-11; Am. Ord. 1277, passed 4-5-16) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk or his or her designee
shall issue to the owner of a dog or cat a numbered receipt and durable tag for
each dog or cat so licensed. The durable tag shall be properly attached to the
collar or harness of all dogs or cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner
to keep or harbor the said dog or cat until the thirty-first day of December
following such licensing. Alternatively, the city may recognize a microchip
identification number as the license number, and the microchip shall substitute
for the physical tag. In the event that a license tag is lost and upon
satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance
with the provisions herein, the City Clerk or his or her designee shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and shall charge and collect a fee for each duplicate or new tag so
issued. All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the
General Fund upon receipt by the city. License fees and replacement tag fees
shall be in such amounts as set from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council, and a current record of applicable fees shall be maintained by the
City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 6-107) (Am. Ord. 348, passed 9-6-83; Am. Ord. 876, passed 11-5-02;
Am. Ord. 1011, passed 10-3-06)
§ 95.07 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(‘79 Code, § 6-118) Penalty, see §
95.99
2019 S-12
§ 95.08 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license or other city
identification than that issued by the City Clerk or his or her designee for
dogs or cats.
(‘79 Code, § 6-108) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-206
§ 95.09 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog, cat or rabbit to be for ten
days or more in or about his or her house, store or enclosure, or to remain to
be fed, shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog, cat or rabbit and
shall be deemed to be liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(‘79 Code, § 6-109) (Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-7-81)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 65-606
   Rabies, see Neb. RS 71-4401 et seq.
§ 95.10 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council, whenever in its opinion the danger
to the public safety from rabid dogs, cats or rabbits is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog,
cat or rabbit to muzzle the same or to confine it for a period of not more than
90 days from the date of such proclamation or until such danger is passed. The
dogs, cats or rabbits may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a
house, garage or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon
issuing the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping
or harboring any dog, cat or rabbit to confine the same as herein provided.
(‘79 Code, § 6-110) (Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-7-81)
§ 95.11 MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor at any time more
than three adult dogs or three adult cats per residential or dwelling unit in
the city. The total number of adult dogs and adult cats per residential or
dwelling unit in the city shall not exceed four adult animals. For the purpose
of this section, an adult dog or cat is a dog or cat that is more than four
months old. Provisions of this section shall not apply to catteries, kennels,
and pet stores which have been licensed pursuant to §
95.17.
(‘79 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 212, passed - -; Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-11-81; Am.
Ord. 283, passed 9-1-81; Am. Ord. 296, passed 2-2-82; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 7-
2-13) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The city police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious
tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible because
of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 54-605) (‘79 Code, § 6-113)
§ 95.13 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dangerous
domestic animal or a potentially dangerous domestic animal, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMAL means any
domestic animal that:
      (1)   Has killed a human being;
      (2)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
      (3)   Has killed or inflicted serious injury on a domestic animal without
provocation;
      (4)   Ferociously and without provocation has attacked, snapped at, or
bitten one or more human beings, or one or more other domestic animals, one or
more times, or has a history of any of such behaviors;
      (5)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
domestic animal by the animal control authority of the city, the owner of which
has received notice from the animal control authority of the city of such
determination, and that inflicts an injury on a human being that does not
require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety
of humans or domestic animals;
      (6)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of animal
fighting; or
      (7)   By training, disposition, or behavior poses a potential risk of
attacking and inflicting injury without provocation upon human beings or other
domestic animals.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMAL
means:
      (1)   Any domestic animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts an injury on a
human being that does not require medical treatment, either on public or
private property;
      (2)   Any domestic animal that, when unprovoked, injures a domestic
animal, either on public or private property;
      (3)   Any domestic animal that, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a
person who is upon a street, sidewalk, or any other public ground or public
area, in a menacing or threatening fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (4)   Any specific domestic animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, or to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of human beings or other domestic animals.
   (D)   (1)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous domestic animal or a
potentially dangerous domestic animal if it inflicts injury or damage upon a
human being committing a willful trespass or other tort upon premises occupied
by the owner of the animal or upon a human being committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
      (2)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous domestic animal or a
potentially dangerous domestic animal for taking action to defend or protect a
human being within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified
attack or assault.
      (3)   No animal used in lawful activities of law enforcement officials
shall be declared to be a dangerous domestic animal or a potentially dangerous
domestic animal.
      (4) No animal may be declared to be a dangerous domestic animal under
division (B)(2) of this section if the individual was tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the animal at the time of the injury or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the animal.
      (5)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous domestic animal under
division (B)(5) of this section if the injury, damage, or threat was sustained
by an individual who, at the time, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
animal, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented,
abused or assaulted the animal.
   (E)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual designated or authorized by an
animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this
chapter or of any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and also includes
any state or local law enforcement officer as well as any other state or local
employee or appointee whose duties in whole or in part include assignments that
involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal or animals.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat or a dog.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in one or more sutures, surgery,
or treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a domestic animal.
      SERIOUS INJURY ON A DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An injury to a domestic animal that
requires treatment administered by a veterinarian, veterinary clinic,
veterinary hospital, or veterinary office, that results in one or more sutures,
surgery, or treatment for one or more broken bones.
(‘79 Code, § 6-114) (Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-11-81; Am. Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-
11; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 7-2-19) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   The purpose of this chapter is in part to preserve the peace, the safety and
the tranquillity of the citizens in their persons and property and protect same
from the risk of loss due to animals. If damage is caused to persons or
property by any dog, cat or rabbit as a result of any person's violation of
this chapter, the owner of such dog, cat or rabbit and any other person or
persons shown to have aided in the violation thereof are jointly and severally
liable for the full amount of such damage.
(‘79 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 212, passed - -; Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-11-81)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory liability, see Neb. RS 54-601
   Joint liability, see Neb. RS 54-602
§ 95.15 SEIZURE AND CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control authority to capture,
secure, and remove to the animal shelter or other suitable impoundment or care
facility, in as humane manner as is practicable under the circumstances, any
animal running at large, owned, kept, harbored, or confined in violation of
this chapter. The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and
shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the animal shelter,
impoundment, or other care facility for a period of not less than five days
after public notice has been given unless keeping or harboring the animal is
lawful within the city and the animal has been reclaimed earlier by its owner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the office of the animal control authority
within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of such impoundment.
   (B)   If keeping or harboring the impounded animal is lawful within the
city, then such animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the required fees as set by the animal control
authority. The owner shall then be required to comply with applicable licensing
and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release unless
earlier compliance is required by applicable state statutes or rules or
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services or provider
of animal control within the city, or other rules or regulations of the city,
as adopted or amended from time to time. If the animal is not claimed at the
end of the required waiting period after public notice has been given, the
animal control authority may dispose of the animal in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same, provided that if, in
the judgment of the animal control authority, a suitable home can be found for
any such animal, the animal shall be turned over to that person and the new
owner shall then be required to pay all fees and comply with all applicable
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The city and/or animal control authority shall acquire legal title to
any unlicensed animal impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than
the required waiting period after giving notice.
   (D)   All expenses of licensing such animals and maintaining the city dog
pound and the salary of the humane officer shall be paid out of the general
fund of the city, and all sums collected by the City Clerk for animal licensing
and all impounding charges collected shall be deposited to and become a part of
the general fund of the city, unless otherwise provided for by a contract
entered into pursuant to §
95.16 of this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section:
      (1)   In the event that the County Attorney files a criminal complaint in
connection with a seized animal, the court in which such complaint was filed
shall have exclusive jurisdiction for disposition of the animal and to
determine any rights therein, including questions respecting the title,
possession, control, and disposition thereof.
      (2)   In the event that an animal seized pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1006 or
Neb. RS 28-1012, disposition and the cost for the care of such animal shall be
governed by Neb. RS 28-1012.01.
(‘79 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 212, passed - -; Am. Ord. 348, passed 9-6-83; Am.
Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1445, passed
2-1-22)
§ 95.16 CONTRACTING FOR ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council, in lieu of utilizing city employees, may
contract with humane societies or others for the performance of all or a part
of the services required to carry out and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   During such time as such services are under contract, then to the
extent said services are contracted:
      (1)   The Humane Society or other contractor shall generally perform the
duties prescribed by ordinance to be performed by the city humane officer.
      (2)   The Humane Society or other contractor shall be authorized to issue
animal licenses, establish the dates upon which licenses become delinquent,
waive delinquent fees for sufficient cause, subcontract with others to issue
licenses and collect a handling fee, collect license fees, maintain licensing
records and to perform such other duties as are prescribed by ordinance to be
performed by the City Clerk in connection with the control of animals and the
licensing thereof.
      (3)   The Mayor and City Council may by resolution specially deputize the
employees of such Humane Society or other contractor for the limited purpose of
issuing complaints and citations for the violation of this chapter. However,
such deputization shall not include the authority to make arrests of persons
for such violations, and any such arrests shall be made by regular law
enforcement officers.
(‘79 Code, § 6-123) (Ord. 339, passed 5-31-83; Am. Ord. 876, passed 11-5-02)
§ 95.17 DOG KENNELS, CATTERIES AND PET STORES.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or entity engaged in the commercial business of
buying, selling, breeding or boarding of dogs or cats in the city or who owns,
harbors or keeps three or more dogs or three or more cats more than four months
of age may do so only after obtaining a license to do so as provided by this
section.
   (B)   The licensing for such activities is as follows:
      (1)   Kennel or cattery license. For the breeding and/or boarding of dogs
or cats, an annual license fee shall be paid to the city in such amount as set
from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of which
shall be maintained by the City Clerk. Such kennel license shall be issued for
a period of one year and shall run from the first day of January of each
calendar year to the thirty-first day of December next following on which day
it shall expire. Kennels and catteries may be maintained only on premises
specified in and in accordance with the building and zoning ordinances, rules,
and regulations of the city, as amended from time to time, and a license shall
not be issued for any other premises.
      (2)   Licensed pet store. For the selling of pets, including dogs and
cats, at retail only, an annual license fee shall be paid to the city in such
amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record
of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk. Such license shall be issued
for a period of one year and shall run from the first day of January of each
calendar year to the thirty- first day of December next following on which day
it shall expire. Pet stores may be maintained only on premises specified in and
in accordance with the building and zoning ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the city, as amended from time to time, and a license shall not be issued
for any other premises.
(‘79 Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 296, passed 2-2-82) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 ANIMAL EXCREMENT; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal, or any
person harboring any animal, to fail to remove feces, excrement, or droppings
deposited by such animal on streets, sidewalks, parks, recreation areas, or any
other public or private property, or in any water, immediately after the animal
has deposited said feces, excrement, or droppings.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
competent person in immediate control of the animal immediately removes and
deposits the fecal matter, excrement, or droppings deposited by an animal in an
appropriate trash container.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any person using a trained guide dog
because of visual or other physical impairment.
   (D)   Farm property and large tracts of land used as riding stables shall be
exempt from this section.
(Am. Ord. 1434, passed 12-7-21)
§ 95.19 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMAL; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The preliminary determination as to whether a particular animal is a
potentially dangerous domestic animal shall be made by the city's animal
control authority on the basis of reasonable evidence, which may include but
shall not be limited to reports and statements of witnesses, observation, and
the opinion of experts. If the animal control officer has reasonable cause to
believe that the animal threatens the safety of the public or of domestic
animals, the animal control officer may enter upon any premises upon which the
animal is kept and remove the animal from those premises to a place of
impoundment.
   (B)   If the animal control authority has preliminarily determined an animal
to be a potentially dangerous domestic animal as defined in §
95.13, the animal control authority shall initiate administrative proceedings
to make such determination final by serving a preliminary determination notice
on such animal's owner either:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   By certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner
at the owner's usual place of residence; or
      (3)   By residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the
owner's usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion residing therein. The preliminary determination notice shall
contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is the subject of
the proceeding;
         (b)   The name, description and any known license number of the animal
that is the subject of the proceeding;
         (c)   A statement that the animal control authority has preliminarily
determined the animal to be a potentially dangerous domestic animal and a
summary description of the facts that form the basis of such preliminary
determination;
         (d)   A summary of the effects of a final determination that the
animal is a potentially dangerous domestic animal, including a summary or copy
of the requirements of §§
95.21,
95.22,
95.23, and
95.24, and a statement that noncompliance by the owner with such requirements
will result in the owner being declared a reckless owner by the animal control
authority;
         (e)   A statement of the effective date on which the preliminary
determination notice will become a final determination order if the owner does
not file a timely written request for hearing with the animal control
authority, which effective date shall be not less than ten days after the date
of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the preliminary
determination notice; and
         (f)   A statement that the owner may file with the city's animal
control authority a written request for hearing within ten days after the date
of the mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence service) of
the preliminary determination notice.
   (C)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous domestic animal does not file a written request for
hearing with the animal control authority within ten days after the date of
mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence service) of the
preliminary determination notice, the preliminary determination notice shall
become a final determination order on the effective date stated in the
preliminary determination notice, and tile city's animal control authority
shall so indicate in the records of the animal control authority. In such a
case, the owner shall comply with §
95.24 immediately, with §§
95.21 and
95.22 within 30 days after such effective date, and with §
95.23 within 90 days after such effective date. If the owner fails to comply
with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the animal control
authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under §
95.20 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (D)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous domestic animal files a written request for hearing with
the animal control authority within ten days after the date of mailing (or
within ten days after the personal or residence service) of the preliminary
determination notice, a hearing on such preliminary determination notice shall
be held by a hearing officer designated by the animal control authority. The
hearing shall be held if practicable within ten days after the date of receipt
by the animal control authority of the written request for hearing. Written
notice of the time and place of hearing shall be served on the owner of the
animal by personal service, or by residence service as described in §
95.19(B), not less than 48 hours prior to the scheduled hearing. At the
hearing, the owner shall be provided an opportunity to appear and offer
evidence to dispute the preliminary determination notice. A written
determination to affirm or reverse the preliminary determination notice shall
be entered by the hearing officer within ten days after the date of the
hearing, if practicable. If the preliminary determination notice is affirmed,
the hearing officer shall enter a final determination order and, unless the
owner initiates a timely appeal under §
95.19(E), such order shall require the owner to comply with §
95.24 immediately, with §§
95.21 and
95.22 within 30 days after the entry of the final determination order, and with
§
95.23 within 90 days after entry of the final determination order. If the owner
fails to comply with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the
animal control authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under §
95.20 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (E)   Within ten days after the date of the hearing officer's decision,
either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the hearing officer or the animal
control authority may appeal such decision to the City of La Vista Board of
Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the Board of
Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may affirm or
reverse the decision of the hearing officer and shall be empowered to enter any
order the hearing officer might have entered. If so ordered by the Board of
Health, the owner shall comply with §
95.24 immediately, with §§
95.21 and
95.22 within 30 days after the entry of the order, and with §
95.23 within 90 days after entry of the order. If the owner fails to comply
with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the animal control
authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under §
95.20 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (F)   An owner may request termination of a final determination order that
the owner's animal is a potentially dangerous domestic animal if no incident
described in §
95.13(C) has occurred within two years preceding the date of the termination
request Such a request for termination shall be heard by a hearing officer
designated by the animal control authority, if practicable, within ten days
after the date of the filing of the request for termination. The hearing shall
provide an opportunity for the owner to appear and offer evidence to support
termination of the final determination order. The owner must provide documented
evidence that the animal's behavior has changed due to environment, health,
age, training, neutering or other relevant factor or factors. The owner shall
pay a filing fee in the sum of $100 at the time of filing the termination
request. A decision to continue, terminate or modify such final determination
order shall be entered by the hearing officer within ten days, if practicable,
after the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.20 RECKLESS OWNER.
   (A)   If an owner has been convicted of one or more violations of this
chapter on three separate occasions in any period of 24 consecutive months, the
animal control authority shall initiate administrative proceedings to declare
such owner a reckless owner and to revoke all pet license(s) issued to such
owner that are associated with the owner's animal(s) that were the subject or
subjects of any of such convictions. If an owner's animal has been determined
to be a dangerous domestic animal or a potentially dangerous domestic animal
and such owner has not complied in a timely manner with the requirements of
this chapter pertaining to such animals, the animal control authority shall
initiate administrative proceedings to declare such owner a reckless owner and
to revoke all pet license(s) issued to such owner that are associated with such
animal. In either case, such proceedings shall be instituted by service of a
written declaration and revocation notice upon such owner, either:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   By certified mall, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner
at the owner's usual place of residence; or
      (3)   By residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the
owner's usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion residing therein. The declaration and revocation notice shall
contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner who is subject to such
declaration and revocation notice;
         (b)   The name(s), description(s) and license number(s) of any animal
(s) associated with such violations licensed to the owner;
         (c)   A description of the violations or requirements which form the
basis of such declaration and revocation notice, including the case numbers, if
any;
         (d)   A summary of the effects of such declaration, including the
revocation of such pet license(s) and surrender to the animal control authority
of such animal(s);
         (e)   The date the animal control authority proposes to enter a final
declaration and revocation order, which shall be not less than ten days after
the date of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the notice; and
         (f)   A statement that the owner may file with the city's animal
control authority a written request for hearing within ten days after the date
of the mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence service) of
the declaration and revocation notice.
   (B)   If the owner does not file a written request for hearing within ten
days after the date of mailing (or within ten days after the personal or
residence service) of the declaration and revocation notice, then such
declaration and revocation notice automatically shall become a final
declaration and revocation order, and within twenty-four hours after the
expiration of such ten-day period the owner shall surrender such animal(s) to
the animal control authority. Failure to surrender such animal(s) shall result
in immediate impoundment by the animal control authority in accordance with §
95.15. Such surrendered or impounded animal(s) shall immediately become the
property of the animal control authority and may be disposed of or destroyed
humanely by the animal control authority, or placed with a new owner, as the
authority deems appropriate.
   (C)   If the owner files a written request for hearing within ten days after
the date of mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence
service) of the declaration and revocation notice, a hearing on such
declaration and revocation notice shall be held by a hearing officer designated
by the animal control authority. The hearing shall be held if practicable
within ten days after the date of receipt by the animal control authority of
the written request for hearing. Written notice of the time and place of
hearing shall be served on the owner of the animal by personal service, or by
residence service as described in §
95.20(A), not less than 48 hours prior to the scheduled hearing. At the
hearing, the owner shall be provided an opportunity to appear and offer
evidence to dispute the declaration and revocation notice. A written
determination to affirm or reverse such declaration and revocation notice shall
be entered by the hearing officer within ten days after the date of the hearing
if practicable. If the decision is to affirm the declaration and revocation
notice, the hearing officer shall enter a final declaration and revocation
order requiring the owner to surrender such animal(s) to the animal control
authority within ten days after the date of the hearing officer's decision,
unless the owner initiates a timely appeal from such decision under §
95.20(D).
   (D)   Within ten days after the date of the hearing officer's decision,
either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the hearing officer or the animal
control authority may appeal such decision to the City of La Vista Board of
Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the Board of
Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may affirm or
reverse the decision of the hearing officer and shall be empowered to enter any
order the hearing officer might have entered.
   (E)   An owner who is declared a reckless owner shall be prohibited from
licensing, residing with, or owning any additional animal(s) in the city for a
period of 48 consecutive months from the date of entry of the declaration and
revocation order.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.21 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; SPAYING OR
NEUTERING; MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any animal judicially determined to be a dangerous domestic animal (but not
ordered to be destroyed), and any animal administratively finally determined to
be a potentially dangerous domestic animal, shall be spayed or neutered and
implanted with microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian at the
owner's expense within 30 days after such determination is entered, and written
proof of spaying or neutering and of microchip identification number
implantation shall be provided to the animal control authority within 72 hours
after completion of the procedure. In addition, such dangerous or potentially
dangerous domestic animal shall be required to be licensed as a dangerous or
potentially dangerous domestic animal within 30 days after the determination.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.22 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PROOF OF
INSURANCE.
   No animal judicially determined to be a dangerous domestic animal or
administratively determined to be a potentially dangerous domestic animal shall
be licensed unless the person having custody, ownership or control of such
animal first presents to the animal control authority written proof of
liability insurance, written by an insurer authorized to issue such insurance
in Nebraska, having limits of liability of not less than $100,000 for injury to
any one person caused by such animal. Such insurance shall be maintained in
effect for the entire period such animal is deemed to be a dangerous domestic
animal or potentially dangerous domestic animal. The animal control authority
may require proof that such insurance coverage remains in effect at any time,
but not more frequently than every 60 days, or may require such policy of
insurance to provide that it may not be cancelled or allowed to expire without
30 days prior written notice to the animal control authority.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.23 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CLASSES REQUIRED.
   The owner of any animal judicially determined to be a dangerous domestic
animal or administratively determined to be a potentially dangerous domestic
animal shall be required to attend, within 90 days after such determination is
entered and at the owner's expense, a responsible pet ownership class approved
by the animal control authority and, at the discretion and direction of the
animal control authority, an animal behavior class provided or approved by the
animal control authority.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.24 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; LEASH, MUZZLE AND
HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, or having the
care of a dangerous domestic animal or potentially dangerous domestic animal to
permit or enable such animal to go beyond the property of such person unless
the animal is under the control of a person 19 years of age or older, the
animal is restrained securely by a harness and leash no more than six feet in
length, and the animal is properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal
from biting.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HARNESS. A close fitting device with straps that encircle the animal's
body across the chest, over the shoulders, and under the belly behind the front
legs, to which a leash can be securely attached, and which is constructed of
materials sufficient to securely restrain the animal wearing it given the size
and strength of the animal.
      LEASH. A strap, rope or similar tethering device that can be securely
attached to a harness and which is of sufficient strength and weight to
securely restrain the animal wearing the harness.
      MUZZLE. A basket or cage-like device approved by the animal control
authority to cover the animal's mouth and snout and prevent the animal from
biting, but which allows the animal to open its mouth to pant and drink.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.25 DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; CONFINED.
   No person owning, harboring, or having the care of a dangerous domestic
animal shall permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such
person. A dangerous domestic animal shall be securely confined in a humane
manner indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably
designed to prevent the entry of children under six years of age and to prevent
the animal from escaping. The pen or structure, if allowed by zoning
regulations, shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure
has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded no less than
one foot into the ground or have a concrete pad. The pen or structure shall
also protect the animal from the elements. The owner of a dangerous domestic
animal shall post a clearly visible warning sign on the property where the
animal is kept that informs persons that a dangerous domestic animal is on the
property.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.26 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous domestic animal or a
potentially dangerous domestic animal that bites a human being without
provocation may be immediately impounded by an animal control officer and held
until disposition of the animal is finally determined. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred for the care of such impounded
animal.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.27 DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS AT LARGE; DESTRUCTION.
   If an animal mat has been determined to be a dangerous domestic animal as
defined in §
95.13 is found at large and unattended upon public property, park property, or
a public right-of-way, or upon property not owned or under the control of the
owner of the animal, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property, such
animal may, in the discretion of the Chief of Police or his or her designee,
the animal control authority, the animal control officer, or a law enforcement
officer, be destroyed if the authority or officer reasonably believes the
animal cannot be confined or captured without unreasonable risk of harm to
persons or property. The city shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement
or capture of a dangerous domestic animal found at large nor shall it have a
duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its destruction.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.28 DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any dangerous domestic animal may be immediately confiscated by an
animal control officer if the owner is in violation of this chapter. The owner
shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of such dangerous domestic animal confiscated by an
animal control officer and for the destruction of any dangerous domestic animal
if the action by the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the
owner violated this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of or destroy a dangerous domestic animal in an
expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
§ 95.29 IMPOUNDMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS DURING ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If there is reasonable cause shown that a domestic animal would
constitute a hazard to the safety of the public at large during the pendency of
any action or proceeding commenced under this chapter, or that the owner of
such animal has subjected the animal to neglect or cruelty, the court may order
such animal impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who
owns, kept, harbored, maintained, or controlled the animal involved in such
impoundment shall pay all expenses of the impoundment to the animal control
authority, including costs of shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding, and
other expenses necessitated by the impoundment of the animal or as may be
required for the protection of the public. The animal control authority may
require such person, prior to expiration of ten days after the date of
impoundment, to pay an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable expenses
incurred in caring and providing for the animal, including estimated medical
care, for thirty days, inclusive of the date on which the animal was impounded.
If such payment is not made prior to expiration of such ten-day period, the
animal shall become the property of the animal control authority and may be
humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed with a new owner, as the animal
control authority deems appropriate. Such payment shad be required for each
succeeding 30-day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of
each succeeding 30-day period, the animal shall become the property of the
animal control authority and may be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed
with a new owner, as the animal control authority deems appropriate.
   (B)   The amount of the payment shall be determined by the animal control
authority based on the current rate for board at the animal shelter and the
condition of the animal after its examination by a veterinarian acting for the
animal control authority. Any such payment received by the animal control
authority in excess of the amount determined by the animal control authority to
be due for the board and care of the animal shall be refunded by the animal
control authority upon expiration of the order of impoundment. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the owner of the animal is found not guilty of animal neglect
or cruelty, the owner shall only be required to pay the veterinary expenses and
one-half of the board and care fees determined by the animal control authority
to be due.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the animal control authority that such animal is diseased or
disabled, that it would be inhumane to allow such animal to continue to suffer
the effects of such disease or disability, and that the owner of such animal
declines to advance the costs of reasonable veterinary efforts to cure or
ameliorate the effects of such disease or disability and that the costs of such
veterinary efforts are not otherwise economically practicable, then the animal
shall immediately become the property of the animal control authority and may
be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed with a new owner, as the animal
control authority deems appropriate.
(Ord. 1160, passed 12-20-11)
CATS
§ 95.30 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   No persons shall own, keep or harbor any cat within the city limits unless
such cat is licensed as herein provided. Written application for such license
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state the name and address of the
owner and the name, breed, color, age, sex and any other information as may
identify the cat. The license fee shall be paid at the time of making
application, a numbered receipt given to the applicant and a numbered
identification tag shall be given to the owner.
(‘79 Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 186, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.31 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual cat license fee, delinquent fee and handling fee shall be
in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a
current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, all cat licenses
shall be issued for a period of one year and shall run from the first day of
January of each calendar year to the thirty-first day of December next
following, on which day it shall expire. A license must be procured by January
first of each year. If a cat or cats are acquired by any owner, keeper or
harborer after January first of a licensing year, a license for each cat must
be obtained within 30 days after the acquisition of same, and upon reasonable
proof of licensing within 30 days after acquisition, the license fee for each
cat shall be as set forth in division (A) of this section. If any owner, keeper
or harborer of a cat or cats becomes a resident of the city after January first
of a licensing year, a license for each cat must be procured upon reasonable
proof of licensing within 30 days after establishing such residency, and upon
reasonable proof of licensing within 30 days after new residency is
established, the license fee for each cat shall be as set forth in division (A)
of this section. If, at any time a cat is determined by the City Clerk or
agency designated by the city pursuant to §
95.16 to be unlicensed in violation of this section, the license fee for a cat
license thereafter procured for such cat for the remainder of the licensing
year shall be in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council, a current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk. Such
license fee shall be in addition to any other fine or penalty imposed for
violation of this section. No person shall own, keep or harbor a greater number
of cats than permitted by §
95.11.
   (C)   The initial licensing year for which this section shall be effective
shall commence on May 1, 1993 and end on December 31, 1993, and licenses issued
for such licensing year pursuant to this section shall be valid only for such
period. Upon compliance with all other applicable licensing requirements set
forth in this chapter, the City Clerk or agency designated by the city pursuant
to §
95.16 of this chapter shall issue licenses for the initial licensing year upon
payment of a licensing fee in the amount of two-thirds of the licensing fee set
forth in division (A) of this section.
(‘79 Code, § 6-105) (Ord. 186, passed - -; Am. Ord. 312, passed 7-20-82; Am.
Ord. 348, passed 9-6-83; Am. Ord. 560, passed 4-6-93; Am. Ord. 876, passed 11-
5-02)
§ 95.32 VACCINATION - REQUIRED.
   Unless earlier vaccination or greater requirements are specified by
applicable state statutes, rules or regulations of the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services or provider of animal control within the city, or
other rules or regulations of the city, as adopted or amended from time to
time:
   (A)   Every cat required to be licensed by this chapter shall be vaccinated
against rabies within 30 days after they have reached three months of age, one
year after initial vaccination, and thereafter triennially, according to
vaccine manufacturers’ guidelines. Unvaccinated cats acquired or moved into the
state must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival, unless under
three months of age as specified above.
   (B)   A cat is currently vaccinated if the initial rabies vaccine was
administered at least 28 days previously or booster vaccinations have been
administered in accordance with the manufacturer's guidelines. Regardless of
the age of the cat at initial vaccination, a booster vaccination shall be
administered one year later. If a previously vaccinated cat is overdue for a
booster, it shall be revaccinated.
   (C)   An owner or keeper of any cat required by this chapter to be licensed
and to be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian is exempt from the requirements
of this section if a medical reason exists that precludes the vaccination of
the cat. To qualify for this exemption, the owner or keeper must have a written
statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that includes a description of the
cat and the medical reason that precludes vaccination.
(‘79 Code, § 6-106) (Ord. 186, passed - -; Am. Ord. 437, passed 6-16-87; Am.
Ord. 1137, passed 2-1-11; Am. Ord. 1445, passed 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Control and prevention of rabies; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 77-
4402.03
DOGS
§ 95.45 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog within the city limits unless
such dog is licensed as provided herein. Written application for such license
shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state the name and address of the
owner and the name, breed, color, age and sex of the dog and a statement of the
owner as to the number of other dogs, if any, being harbored on said premises.
The license fee shall be paid at the time of making application, and a numbered
identification tag shall be issued to the owner.
(‘79 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 186, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.46 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual dog license fee, delinquent fee and handling fee shall be
in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, a
current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, all dog licenses
shall be issued for a period of one year and shall run from the first day of
January of each calendar year to the thirty-first day of December next
following, on which day it shall expire. A license must be procured by January
first of each year. If a dog or dogs are acquired by any owner, keeper or
harborer after January first of a licensing year, a license for each dog must
be obtained within 30 days after the acquisition of same, and upon reasonable
proof of licensing within 30 days after acquisition, the license fee for each
dog shall be as set forth in division (A) of this section. If any owner, keeper
or harborer of a dog or dogs becomes a resident of the city after January first
of a licensing year, a license for each dog must be procured upon reasonable
proof of licensing within 30 days after establishing such residency, and upon
reasonable proof of licensing within 30 days after new residency is
established, the license fee for each dog shall be as set forth in division (A)
of this section. If, at any time a dog is determined by the City Clerk or
agency designated by the city pursuant to §
95.16 of this chapter to be unlicensed in violation of this section, the
license fee for a dog license thereafter procured for such dog for the
remainder of the licensing year shall be in such amount as set from time to
time by the Mayor and City Council, a current record of which shall be
maintained by the City Clerk. Such license fee shall be in addition to any
other fine or penalty imposed for violation of this section. No person shall
own, keep or harbor a greater number of dogs than permitted by §
95.11.
   (C)   The initial licensing year for which this section shall be effective
shall commence on May 1, 1993 and end on December 31, 1993, and licenses issued
for such licensing year pursuant to this section shall be valid only for such
period. Upon compliance with all other applicable licensing requirements set
forth in this chapter, the City Clerk or agency designated by the city pursuant
to §
95.16 shall issue licenses for the initial licensing year upon payment of a
licensing fee in the amount of two-thirds of the licensing fee set forth in
division (A) of this section.
(‘79 Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 186, passed - -; Am. Ord. 296, passed 2-2-82; Am.
Ord. 348, passed 9-6-83; Am. Ord. 560, passed 4-6-93; Am. Ord. 876, passed 11-
5-02)
§ 95.47 VACCINATION - REQUIRED.
   Unless earlier vaccination or greater requirements are specified by
applicable state statutes, rules or regulations of the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services or provider of animal control within the city, or
other rules or regulations of the city, as adopted or amended from time to
time:
   (A)   Every dog required to be licensed by this chapter shall be vaccinated
against rabies within 30 days after they have reached three months of age, one
year after initial vaccination, and thereafter triennially, according to
vaccine manufacturers’ guidelines. Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the
state must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival, unless under
three months of age as specified above.
   (B)   A dog is currently vaccinated if the initial rabies vaccine was
administered at least 28 days previously or booster vaccinations have been
administered in accordance with the manufacturer’s guidelines. Regardless of
the age of the dog at initial vaccination, a booster vaccination shall be
administered one year later. If a previously vaccinated dog is overdue for a
booster, it shall be revaccinated.
   (C)   An owner or keeper of any dog required by this chapter to be licensed
and to be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian is exempt from the requirements
of this section if a medical reason exists that precludes the vaccination of
the dog. To qualify for this exemption, the owner or keeper must have a written
statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that includes a description of the
dog and the medical reason that precludes vaccination.
(‘79 Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 186, passed - -; Am. Ord. 312, passed 7-20-82; Am.
Ord. 436, passed 6-16-87; Am. Ord. 1137, passed 2-1-11; Am. Ord. 1445, passed
2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Control and prevention of rabies; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 77-
4402.03
§ 95.48 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog
within the city which by constant and continuous barking, whining or howling in
an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion shall annoy or disturb the
surrounding neighborhood or other persons. In addition, no person shall own,
keep or harbor any cat within the city which by meowing or yowling in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion shall annoy or disturb the
surrounding neighborhood or other persons.
   (B)   Any dog which annoys or disturbs the surrounding neighborhood or other
persons by the constant and continuous barking, whining or howling in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion or any cat which annoys or disturbs
the surrounding neighborhood or other persons by meowing or yowling in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion may be declared a public nuisance and
impounded by the licensing authority.
   (C)   Any dog or cat so impounded may be reclaimed upon payment of the
kennel and impoundment fees prescribed by the licensing authority. The
provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the city dog
shelter.
(‘79 Code, § 6-116) (Am. Ord. 876, passed 11-5-02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.49 FEMALES IN ESTRUS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to harbor a female dog in estrus (heat)
within the city unless the dog is penned in a completely enclosed kennel,
garage, basement, or other adequate facility that will keep said female in and
other dogs out.
(‘79 Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.50 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually-impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the city code, but no license tax shall
be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of the
required license tax.
(Ord. 767, passed 4-20-99) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory fee exemption, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 95.51 PROHIBITED TREATMENT AGAINST POLICE DOGS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to taunt,
torment, tease, beat, strike, interfere with, endanger, injure or kill or
administer or subject desensitizing drugs, chemicals or substances to any dog
used by a law enforcement officer in the performance of their duties or when
the dog is placed in a kennel or any enclosure while off duty.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to any police officer or
veterinarian who is required to treat any such animal or who may perform
euthanasia in an emergency situation when delay would cause the dog undue
suffering and pain.
(Ord. 755, passed 12-1-98) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified in applicable state statute or in another chapter
or section of this code with respect to a particular violation, any person,
firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine
in the amounts set forth below, plus court costs:
 
 First Offense:  A fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100
 Second Offense: A fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200
 Third Offense:  A fine of not less than $200 nor more than $500
 Fourth Offense: A fine of $500 and any subsequent offense
 
(‘79 Code, § 6-120) (Am. Ord. 283, passed 4-11-81; Am. Ord. 1434, passed 12-7-
21)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   TEMPORARY SALES
      
112.   PROFESSIONAL LICENSING
      
113.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
116.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
117.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
      
118.   NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
      
119.   TOBACCO PRODUCT SALES REGULATIONS
      
120.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Self Service Stations
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   N.F.P.A. standards adopted
SELF SERVICE STATIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   SELF-SERVICE MOTOR FUEL DISPENSING STATIONS, as used in this subchapter, are
defined as that portion of property where flammable and combustible liquids
used as motor fuels are stored and subsequently dispensed from fixed equipment
into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station
attendant and shall include any facility available for the sale of other retail
products.
(‘79 Code, § 10-301) (Ord. 138, passed - -)
§ 110.02 N.F.P.A. STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   Incorporated herein by reference into this code are the standards
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, known as the
Automotive and Marine Service Station Codes, N.F.P.A. 1 and N.F.P.A. 30A, as
may be amended from time to time. This code shall have the same force and
effect as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the Automotive and Marine
Service Station Codes is on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The operation of all self-service
motor vehicle dispensing stations, including all use, sales, storage,
transportation, and installation of flammable and combustible gases shall be in
conformity with the aforementioned standards.
(‘79 Code, § 10-302) (Ord. 138, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: TEMPORARY SALES
Section
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
111.01   Regulation
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   Distribution of handbills
Fireworks
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Sale and discharge of nonpermissible fireworks prohibited
   
111.17   Sale of permissible fireworks; permit required; application; permit
fee
   
111.18   Sale of permissible fireworks regulated
   
111.19   Discharge of permissible fireworks regulated
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 111.01 REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful good and
services and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products and
services sold and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all
peddlers and hawkers shall, before doing business within the city, make
application for and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be
made to the City Clerk and shall contain all necessary information and
documents required for the protection of the residents of the city. Peddlers
with any fixed site location shall be limited to six sales days per calendar
year unless otherwise provided. Any person or persons granted a peddler and
hawker permit shall be subject to any fees, occupation taxes and other rules
and regulations which the City Council deems appropriate for the purposes
stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation by the City
Clerk for good and sufficient cause upon a written complaint by the city
police. For purposes of this §
111.01, PEDDLER or HAWKER shall mean an itinerant trader or traveling
salesperson, or a person who goes about seeking sales and deliveries of
articles to possible customers or who sells or attempts to sell goods he or she
carries with him or her in traveling about from place to place.
(‘79 Code, § 10-201) (Am. Ord. 745, passed 10-6-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person or persons selling
farm produce exempted by the provisions of §
113.04 or to wholesale salesmen soliciting merchants directly or to a
representative of a nonprofit or charity organization soliciting on behalf of
that organization.
(‘79 Code, § 10-202) (Am. Ord. 745, passed 10-6-98)
§ 111.03 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the text clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HANDBILLS. Any pamphlet or printed advertising, circular, leaflet,
magazine or other printed or written material or copy thereof.
      PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, place, leave or
distribute any handbill, sample or other material in, upon or to private
premises within the city within any plastic bag or other material that is
capable of causing the suffocation of any minor person or otherwise throw,
deposit, place, leave or distribute in, upon or to private premises within the
city any such plastic bag or other material unless:
      (1)   The plastic bags or other materials are comprised of materials
having holes no less than one-fourth inch in diameter and not more than two
inches apart:
      (2)   The plastic bags or other material has no opening greater than six
inches in diameter;
      (3)   Hand delivered in person to the owner or other adult person present
in or upon such private premises; or
      (4)   A distribution of mail by United States Postal Service.
   (C)   No provisions hereof shall be construed to authorize the use of
mailboxes for the depositing of handbills, samples or other materials
prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(‘79 Code, § 10-203) (Ord. 466, passed 9-20-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For related provisions, see §
130.02
FIREWORKS
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS. Sparklers, vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, color wheels and lady
fingers not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length or one-eighth inch in
diameter and which do not contain more than 50 milligrams each in weight of
explosive material. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
fireworks to be used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under
authorization of the city or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes
pursuant to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (‘79 Code, § 10-312) (Ord. 75, passed - -; Am. Ord. 470,
passed 10-18-88)
§ 111.16 SALE AND DISCHARGE OF NONPERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer for
sale, ignite or cause to be exploded within the corporate limits of the city
any fireworks or any other dangerous or combustible substance; provided,
however, permissible fireworks may be sold and discharged in accordance with
the following sections of this subchapter; and provided further that the City
Council may authorize fireworks displays at special public gatherings under
such circumstances that they will do no damage to person or property upon
issuance of a display permit.
(‘79 Code, § 10-312) (Ord. 75, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1237, 28-1239.01, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-
1245, and 28-1249
§ 111.17 SALE OF PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS; PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; PERMIT
FEE.
   (A)   Each year the City Council shall determine whether or not to allow
fireworks stands to operate in the city. If the City Council determines that
fireworks stands will be permitted, the Council shall, by resolution, establish
the maximum number of permits to be issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer
for sale any permissible fireworks within the corporate limits of the city
unless such person has first obtained a permit from the City Council to do so.
   (C)   Application for said permit shall be made in the following manner:
      (1)   Application shall be made on such form as shall be prescribed by
the City Council and shall be filed with the City Clerk by noon on January 15
of the year for which the permit is sought. If January 15 falls on a weekend or
a holiday when city offices are closed, the deadline will move to noon on the
next business day. The city shall, by publication, give notice each November of
the procedure and deadline for submitting a permit application.
      (2)   Only nonprofit organizations and associations using volunteer sales
persons and which will use the net proceeds from the sale of fireworks for
community betterment purposes within the city shall be eligible for a permit.
      (3)   If the applicant organization has held a permit in any of the three
preceding years, it must file with its application a written statement of the
income and expenses from the sale of its fireworks within the city for each of
such years, together with a statement of its community betterment type
expenditures made from the net proceeds from the sale of fireworks in each said
year.
      (4)   The applicant shall state the nature of the community betterment
purpose for which the net proceeds from the current year's sale of fireworks
will be utilized if the permit be granted.
      (5)   The application organization must identify the proposed location
for the retail fireworks stand in the permit application. A signed statement
from the property owner granting the application organization permission to
utilize the property must accompany the application.
      (6)   All applications for permits must be approved by the City Council.
The City Clerk shall be responsible for reviewing applications, tallying points
and making recommendations to the Council for permits. Applications will be
evaluated on the following criteria/point system:
         (a)   Each year all applications will start out with a total of 20
points.
         (b)   Applications shall be automatically disqualified if they are
received after the application deadline of January 15; if they are incomplete
based on the checklist that is included on the application form; or if the
applicant organization is a prior-year permit holder that has displayed and/or
sold or attempted to sell illegal fireworks or has otherwise violated the law
regarding the operation of their fireworks stand.
         (c)   1.   Applications that are not disqualified will be reviewed by
the City Clerk and will lose points according to the following schedule:
Point Deduction Infraction
Point Deduction Infraction
2               Information missing from the fireworks application permit
2               Information missing from the tent permit application
2               Information missing from the sign permit application
2               Information missing from the explosive materials storage permit
                application
2               Information missing from the site plan
5               Lack of sufficient detail regarding proposed community
                betterment expenditures
5               Lack of sufficient detail regarding previous years income and
                expenditures
5 - 20          Concerns with proposed location based on recommendation from
                public safety personnel
                
 
            2.   In the event of a tie(s) after ranking, first preference shall
be given to those eligible organizations that identify community betterment
acquisitions, services or programs which will benefit the city as a whole.
Those that benefit only particular areas or neighborhoods of the city shall
have second preference. If all other application requirements are met, special
consideration will be given to organizations agreeing to co-locate and operate
a fireworks stand.
      (7)   Permits will be valid only for the period specified on the face of
the permit and will automatically terminate on the specified ending date.
Permit holders shall not have any right to or expectation of receiving a permit
or operating a fireworks stand in the city in any future year or period.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, permits are revocable at the
will of the city, at anytime, with or without cause.
      (8)   As used herein, the following terms have the following meaning:
         (a)   COMMUNITY BETTERMENT shall mean that which generally betters or
enhances the community of the city, such as:
            1.   The acquisition, improvement and maintenance of parks and
recreational facilities, public equipment and other items for community use and
enjoyment or to be used by the city in service to the community;
            2.   The recruitment and attraction of new businesses and jobs to
the city community;
            3.   Athletic programs for the community; and
            4.   Other acquisitions, services or programs of general benefit to
the city community.
         (b)   NET PROCEEDS shall mean gross sales less the cost of fireworks,
permit fee, rental or lease expense, advertising and similar costs of operation
of the fireworks stand. Volunteer salespersons shall be used and any
remuneration paid or given to persons performing services in connection with
the sale of fireworks shall not be deemed a cost of operation.
      (9)   A permit fee to sell, hold for sale or offer for sale permissible
fireworks in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council
and a current record of which shall be maintained by the City Clerk, shall be
collected by the city. A permit application deposit of $500 must accompany the
permit application; and, if a permit is issued, the remaining balance shall be
due and payable no later than June 25 of the year for which the permit has been
issued. If the permit is denied, $400 of the deposit will be refunded.
      (10) Prior to issuance of the permit, applicant shall supply to the city
a copy of a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company in good
standing, authorized to do business in Nebraska, providing combined liability
coverage for bodily injury and property damage in a minimum amount of $300,000
per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate coverage and naming the City of La
Vista as an additional insured.
(‘79 Code, § 10-313) (Ord. 75, passed - -; Am. Ord. 721, passed 3-17-98; Am.
Ord. 777, passed 5-18-99; Am. Ord. 792, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed
11-19-02; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 1120, passed 4-6-10) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 111.18 SALE OF PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS REGULATED.
   Persons holding a permit to sell permissible fireworks:
   (A)   May only sell the same beginning 12:01 a.m. June 28 and ending at 11:
00 p.m. on July 4 of the year for which the permit is issued. Within this
period, permissible fireworks may be sold only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.;
   (B)   Shall at no time sell within the city limits any fireworks or other
pyrotechnics other than permissible fireworks;
   (C)   Shall during such times as fireworks are being sold have an adult in
charge of his or her stand or retail outlet and shall display therein the
required permit in a conspicuous manner and place;
   (D)   Shall at all times comply with all regulations passed by the City
Council pertaining to the permissible size, location, equipping and operation
of fireworks stands and retail outlets; and
   (E)   Shall at no time sell any fireworks or other pyrotechnics to any
person under 12 years of age.
(‘79 Code, § 10-314) (Am. Ord. 792, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 11-
19-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 DISCHARGE OF PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS REGULATED.
   (A)   Prohibition as to time of discharge. Except as may be otherwise
provided herein or authorized by special permit approved by the City Council,
no person shall ignite or discharge any permissible fireworks except between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. from June 28 through July 2 inclusive and
between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. from July 3 through July 4
inclusive of each year.
   (B)   Dangerous environmental conditions. In the event that in the
determination of the Fire Chief, general weather or ground cover conditions are
such as create an unacceptable risk of fire should there be discharge of
fireworks, including permissible fireworks, within the city limits, then in
such event the Fire Chief shall advise the City Administrator and Mayor of such
determination and shall communicate a recommendation to them for any
preventative action or measures the Fire Chief deems necessary, including what
limitations should be placed upon the time period for discharge of fireworks or
the extent to which the discharge of fireworks should be prohibited. The Mayor,
with the advice of the Council President, the City Administrator, the Fire
Chief, and the Chief of Police, or such of them as may be readily available,
shall order such action, if any, the Mayor shall deem necessary or appropriate
in the situation, including partial or total bans on discharge of fireworks on
such dates and during such times as the Mayor may determine necessary or
appropriate. Should the Mayor determine that prohibitive or preventative action
is required, the Mayor shall issue a proclamation to that effect and shall
advise the City Administrator, who shall advise the members of the City
Council, the Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, and the media of the Mayor's
proclamation and shall cause same to be conspicuously posted throughout the
city. Discharge of fireworks in violation of such proclamation shall constitute
a violation of this section and shall be punishable as such. As used herein,
references to the Mayor and other officials shall, in the case of their absence
or inability to act, include persons empowered to act in their stead.
   (C)   Prohibition as to manner and place of discharge. In no event shall any
person ignite or discharge any fireworks, even though same be permissible
fireworks:
      (1)   In or from any motor vehicle;
      (2)   On any street, highway, or sidewalk;
      (3)   Near any person or group of persons;
      (4)   In any building;
      (5)   In any public park, except as may be authorized by special permit;
      (6)   In any public building;
      (7)   In any school or on any school grounds; and
      (8)   In any other manner or place that is likely to inflict or increase
the risk of property damage or bodily harm to any person or persons or place
any of them in danger of bodily harm.
   (D)   Special permit for community fireworks show.
      (1)   The City Clerk may authorize the issuance of special permits for
fireworks displays to be conducted by or under the auspices of the city or by
or under the auspices of a nonprofit organization, organized for purposes of
service to or betterment of the city, its businesses, or residents, for the
purpose of putting on an admission-free public fireworks display for the
benefit of the residents of the city at such place, during such times and under
such terms, conditions, and security measures as the City Clerk may prescribe
for such display.
      (2)   The permit holder shall obtain the required approval of the State
Fire Marshal. By way of specification and not of limitation, as a condition of
any permit hereunder, the permit holder shall obtain and maintain in effect,
for the maximum limitations and repose periods under any and all products
liability or tort laws in the State of Nebraska, insurance for any and all
liabilities arising out of or resulting from any permitted fireworks or
fireworks display, written by an insurer authorized to do business in the
state, in such amount and upon such other terms as satisfactory to the city in
its sole discretion. The city shall be an additional named insured on each such
policy provided.
(‘79 Code, § 10-315) (Ord. 75, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 340, passed 6-21-83; Am.
Ord. 571, passed 8-17-93 Am. Ord. 792, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 813, passed 7-
18-00; Am. Ord. 1062, passed 6-17-08; Am. Ord. 1374, passed 11-19-19) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PROFESSIONAL LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Revocation of registration
Plumbers
   
112.10   Unregistered practice unlawful
   
112.11   Registration requirements
   
112.12   Term of registration
   
112.13   Registration fee
   
112.14   Compliance with law
Water Conditioning Installers
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   Unregistered practice unlawful
   
112.27   Registration requirement
   
112.28   Term of registration
   
112.29   Registration fee
   
112.30   Compliance with law
   
112.31   Inspection
Mechanical Contractors
   
112.45   Unregistered practice unlawful
   
112.46   Registration requirements
   
112.47   Term of registration
   
112.48   Registration fee
   
112.49   Compliance with law
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   Any registration may be revoked for cause by the City Council at any time
upon a hearing and sufficient written sworn charges filed with the Building
Inspector showing the registered person, firm, or corporation had violated any
provision of the city code or rule or regulation of the city relating to
building standards and specifications for the second time within one years or
of other causes sufficient for the revoking of a registration. The registered
person, firm, or corporation shall have written notice of such charges and of
the time of such hearing. Any person, firm, or corporation having its
registration revoked for cause shall not be allowed to reregister with the city
for a period of one year thereafter. Any person, firm, or corporation providing
a bond to the city shall forfeit such bond upon revocation of such
registration.
(‘79 Code, § 10-413) (Am. Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91)
PLUMBERS
§ 112.10 UNREGISTERED PRACTICE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, agent, receiver or
trustee to cause or permit any job of plumbing or drain laying or making any
connection with or opening into any private or public sewer or water
distribution system, or to do any plumbing in connection with any property
located within this city or within its zoning jurisdiction outside the
corporate limits of this city, unless the plumber doing said work has been
registered as required by this subchapter and has received a permit from the
Building Inspector for the particular plumbing or drain laying work. Any
person, firm, or corporation doing work in violation of the provisions hereof
shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter and subject to the penalties
hereinafter provided for such violation.
(‘79 Code, § 10-401) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Building Inspector shall not allow any person, firm, or corporation to
register with this city as a plumber unless such person, firm, or corporation
shall first provide the following:
   (A)   The full name and business address of the person, firm, or
corporation.
   (B)   Evidence that a proper license to engage in the business of plumbing
has been issued to such person, firm, or corporation by a metropolitan class
city in Nebraska or such other political subdivision in Nebraska or Iowa as the
city shall deem to have adequate licensing examination requirements, and that
the person, firm, or corporation is authorized to transact business in the
state of Nebraska.
   (C)   No master plumber registration shall be allowed without the filing
with the city of a certificate of insurance which provides combined coverage
for bodily injury and property damage in a minimum amount of $300,000 per
occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate coverage plus a bond in the sum of
$5,000 with sufficient sureties, such bond and certificate of insurance to be
for the protection of the city against loss or damage by reason of carelessness
or negligence of the person holding such license to properly execute and
protect any and all plumbing work performed by him or her or work under his or
her supervision during the period of such registration. Master plumbers who
work full time for an agency, company or corporation and who do not perform
plumbing for anyone other than their employer shall be exempt from providing
the $300,000 combined insurance coverage. This exemption will be granted
provided the plumber files with the city a bond in the sum of $5,000 and proof
of insurance from his or her employer in an amount equal to or greater than
$300,000.
(‘79 Code, § 10-402) (Am. Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91; Am. Ord. 753, passed 11-17-
98)
§ 112.12 TERM OF REGISTRATION.
   All original and renewal registrations shall be nontransferable and shall
expire on the thirty-first day of December following a registration or renewal
thereof. Each person, firm, or corporation desiring to renew its registration
shall again comply with the requirements applicable to the original
registration.
(‘79 Code, § 10-403)
§ 112.13 REGISTRATION FEE.
   A fee shall be paid upon each registration or renewal thereof pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter. The applicable fee shall be in such amount as set
from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of such
amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 10-404)
§ 112.14 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   All persons, firms or corporations registered as provided herein shall
faithfully observe all ordinances of the city pertaining to plumbing, and all
plumbing work executed by or under the supervision of such person, firm, or
corporation shall be executed in a workmanlike manner and shall be of such
character as to fully secure the results sought to be obtained by this
subchapter or the City Plumbing Code.
(‘79 Code, § 10-405) Penalty, see §
112.99
WATER CONDITIONING INSTALLERS
§ 112.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the term "water conditioning appliance"
shall mean any apparatus or equipment which is designed to soften, filter or
change the mineral content of water where such apparatus and equipment is
connected to a water supply system and is not connected to a drainage system.
The phrase "connected to a water supply system" shall not be considered to
include connection to existing faucets. The term "water conditioning installer"
shall mean a person engaging in the business of installing, replacing or
relocating water conditioning appliances.
(‘79 Code, § 10-411)
§ 112.26 UNREGISTERED PRACTICE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
occupation of a water conditioning installer in connection with any property
located within this city or within its zoning jurisdiction outside the
corporate limits of this city, unless the person doing the water conditioning
work is registered as a plumber or as a water conditioning installer as
required by this subchapter and has received a permit from the Building
Inspector for the particular water conditioning work. Any person, firm, or
corporation doing work in violation of the provisions hereof shall be guilty of
a violation of this subchapter and subject to the penalties hereinafter
provided for such violation.
(‘79 Code, § 10-406) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   The Building Inspector shall not allow any person, firm, or corporation to
register with this city as a water conditioning installer unless each person,
firm, or corporation shall first provide the following:
   (A)   The full name and business address of the person, firm, or
corporation.
   (B)   Evidence that a proper license to engage in the business of water
conditioning installation has been issued to such person, firm, or corporation
by a municipal class city in Nebraska or such other city in Nebraska as the
City Council shall deem to have adequate licensing examination requirements.
   (C)   The trade name used by the person, firm, or corporation if any.
(‘79 Code, § 10-407)
§ 112.28 TERM OF REGISTRATION.
   All original and renewal registrations shall be nontransferable and shall
expire on the thirty-first day of December following a registration or renewal
thereof. Each person, firm, or corporation desiring to renew its registration
shall again comply with requirements applicable to the original registration.
(‘79 Code, § 10-408)
§ 112.29 REGISTRATION FEE.
   A fee shall be paid upon each registration or renewal thereof pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter. The applicable fee shall be in such amount set
from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of such
amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk
(‘79 Code, § 10-409)
§ 112.30 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   All persons, firms or corporations registered as required by this subchapter
shall faithfully observe all ordinances of the city pertaining to the
installation of water conditioning appliances, and all work executed by or
under the supervision of such person, firm, or corporation shall be executed in
a workmanlike manner and shall be of such character as to fully secure the
results sought to be obtained by this subchapter or any other ordinance, rule
or regulation of the city relating to water conditioning appliances.
(‘79 Code, § 10-410) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 INSPECTION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation installing, replacing or relocating a water
conditioning appliance shall give notice of completion to the Building
Inspector, and the Building Inspector shall, within ten days after the notice
of completion, inspect or cause to be inspected such installation, replacement
or relocation and shall indicate in writing that such work has been approved or
disapproved.
(‘79 Code, § 10-412)
MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS
§ 112.45 UNREGISTERED PRACTICE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, agent, receiver or
trustee to cause or permit any installation, repair, modification or expansion
of a furnace or air conditioning system on a property located within this city
or within its zoning jurisdiction outside the corporate limits of this city,
unless the mechanical contractor doing said work has been registered as
required by this subchapter and has received a permit from the Building
Inspector for the particular mechanical heating or air conditioning work. Any
person, firm, or corporation doing work in violation of the provisions hereof
shall be guilty of a violation of this subchapter and subject to the penalties
hereinafter provided for such violation.
(‘79 Code, § 10-415) (Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.46 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The Building Inspector shall not allow any person, firm, or corporation to
register with this city as a mechanical contractor unless such person, firm, or
corporation shall first provide the following:
   (A)   The full name and business address of the person, firm, or
corporation.
   (B)   Evidence that a proper license to engage in the business of mechanical
contracting has been issued to such person, firm, or corporation by a
metropolitan class city in Nebraska or such other political subdivision in
Nebraska as the City Council shall deem to have adequate licensing examination
requirements.
   (C)   (1)   No mechanical contractor registration shall be allowed without
the filing with the city of a certificate of insurance which provides combined
coverage for bodily injury and property damage in a minimum amount of $300,000
dollars per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate coverage plus a bond in the
sum of $5,000 dollars with sufficient sureties, such bond and certificate of
insurance to be for the protection of the city against loss or damage by reason
of carelessness or negligence of the person holding such license to properly
execute and protect any and all mechanical contracting work performed by him or
her or work under his or her supervision during the period of such
registration.
      (2)   Mechanical contractors who work full time for an agency, company or
corporation and who do not perform mechanical contracting work for anyone other
than their employer shall be exempt from providing the $300,000 dollars
combined insurance coverage. This exemption will be granted provided the
mechanical contractor files with the city a bond in the sum of $5,000 and proof
of insurance from his or her employer in an amount equal to or greater than
$300,000.
(‘79 Code, § 10-416) (Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91; Am. Ord. 754, passed 11-17-98)
§ 112.47 TERM OF REGISTRATION.
   All original and renewal registrations shall be nontransferable and shall
expire on the thirty-first day of December following a registration or renewal
thereof. Each person, firm, or corporation desiring to renew its registration
shall again comply with the requirements applicable to the original
registration. (‘79 Code, § 10-417) (Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91)
§ 112.48 REGISTRATION FEE.
   A fee shall be paid upon each registration or renewal thereof pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter. The applicable fee shall be in such amount set
from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of such
amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk
(‘79 Code, § 10-418) (Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91)
§ 112.49 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   All persons, firms or corporations registered as provided herein shall
faithfully observe all ordinances of the city pertaining to heating and air
conditioning, and all mechanical work executed by or under the supervision of
such person, firm, or corporation shall be executed in a workmanlike manner and
shall be of such character as to fully secure the results sought to be obtained
by this subchapter and the City Mechanical Code.
(‘79 Code, § 10-419) (Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Unless a penalty is otherwise provided in applicable state statute or in
another chapter or section of this code with respect to a particular violation,
any person, firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, including but not limited to any neglect or refusal to comply
therewith or opposition to the enforcement thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine in any
amount not in excess of $100 in the discretion of the court. Every day on which
a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation hereunder. If such
person is registered to engage in the business of plumbing, water conditioning,
or mechanical contracting installation, replacement, or relocation pursuant to
this chapter, he or she shall forfeit his or her registration and shall not be
entitled to another registration for one year after such forfeiture.
(‘79 Code, § 10-414) (Am. Ord. 520, passed 3-5-91)
CHAPTER 113: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Amounts
   
113.03   Government exemption
   
113.04   Locally grown products exempted
   
113.05   Collection date
   
113.06   Nonrefundable
   
113.07   Gas and telephone companies; procedure
   
113.08   Cable television system or cable service
   
113.09   Licensing; lotteries and games of chance
Administration; Remedies
   
113.25   Administration of chapter; miscellaneous provisions
   
113.26   Failure to file return or pay; delinquency; assessment by City
Administrator
   
113.27   Jeopardy assessment
   
113.28   Recovery of unpaid tax by action at law
   
113.29   City a party to title actions for determination of lien
   
113.30   Penalties and interest
   
113.31   Authority of City Administrator to waive penalty
Restaurants and Drinking Places Occupation Tax
   
113.40   Definitions
   
113.41   Findings, intent, and purpose of subchapter
   
113.42   Tax levied and imposed
   
113.43   Tax imposed for revenue purposes; tax cumulative
   
113.44   Return and administration allowance
   
113.45   Quarterly return and payment election
   
113.46   Effective date
Enhanced Employment Areas and General Business Occupation Taxes:
   
113.55   Definitions
   
113.56   General business occupation taxes authorized
   
113.57   Taxes cumulative
   
113.58   Term
   
113.59   Use of revenues
   
113.60   Return
   
113.61   Administration; remedies
   
113.62   Construction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of raising revenue there is hereby levied an occupation tax
upon each and every classification of occupation, business and service carried
on within the corporate limits of the City of La Vista, Nebraska as specified
and enumerated in this chapter, the city's master fee ordinance, or other city
ordinance. An occupation tax levied and collected pursuant to Neb. RS 16-205
shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, to the extent
applicable. Every person, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation association, or other entity carrying on any classification of
occupation, business or service specified in this chapter, the city’s master
fee ordinance, or other city ordinance within the corporate limits of said city
shall pay to the City Clerk the sum or sums set forth in this chapter, the
city’s master fee ordinance, or other city ordinance as a tax, upon said
occupation or business, to be paid annually on or before the first day of
January unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the city's master fee
ordinance, or other ordinances of the city. Except as otherwise specified in
this chapter, the master fee ordinance or other ordinance of the city, all
money so collected shall be paid over forthwith by the City Clerk to the City
Treasurer, who will credit the same to the General Fund of the city and said
money shall be and remain under the control of the Mayor and City Council of
said city and used for such purposes as are permitted in case of other moneys
belonging to the General Fund.
(‘79 Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 59, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 903, passed 3-18-03; Am.
Ord. 927, passed 2-3-04; Am. Ord. 1187, passed 1-15-13; Am. Ord. 1362, passed
8-20-19)
§ 113.02 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the classifications of businesses and in such amounts as specified in this
chapter or set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council in the city's
master fee ordinance or other ordinances of the city, which shall be maintained
by the City Clerk. An occupation tax levied and collected pursuant to Neb. RS
16-205 shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208 to the extent
applicable.
(‘79 Code, § 10-502) (Ord. 59, passed - -; Ord. 69, passed - -; Ord. 89, passed
- -; Am. Ord. 551, passed 8-4-92; Am. Ord. 740, passed 9-15-98; Am. Ord. 903,
passed 3-18-03; Am. Ord. 927, passed 2-3-04; Am. Ord. 1187, passed 1-15-13; Am.
Ord. 1363, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.03 GOVERNMENT EXEMPTION.
   The occupation taxes levied by this chapter are not levied upon any business
or occupation which does business of an interstate character only, which is
done or conducted by any department of the government of the United States or
the state of Nebraska or the officers and officials of either as such in the
course of its or their official duties or by any county or political
subdivision of the state of Nebraska or its officers as such.
(‘79 Code, § 10-503) (Ord. 59, passed - -)
§ 113.04 LOCALLY GROWN PRODUCTS EXEMPTED.
   It is hereby declared that the provisions of this chapter shall not extend
to or affect individuals selling only their own farm products, fruit,
livestock, meat, poultry, butter, eggs, vegetables, hay or grain, if actually
raised or produced by the said vendor. However, the sale or offering for sale
of the products and commodities in this section excepted in the city shall be
prima facie evidence that the same were not raised or produced by said vendors
until such vendors shall reasonably satisfy the City Clerk or police that they
are entitled to the scheduled exceptions; provided, the City Clerk or Police
may, in any case of such vendor claiming exemption hereunder, accompany him or
her to a notary public or any official authorized to take acknowledgments under
oath, and then and there require him or her to make affidavit with respect to
the matters concerning the raising or production of the specified products or
commodities sold or offered for sale by such vendor.
(‘79 Code, § 10-504) (Ord. 59, passed - -)
§ 113.05 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of January of
each year, except in the event that said tax is stated on a daily or other
basis (other than annually), or another date is specified in this chapter or
the city’s master fee ordinance, or otherwise by City Council by ordinance.
Class C liquor license holder occupation taxes shall be due and payable on the
first day of November, and all liquor license holder occupation taxes with the
exception of Class C shall be due and payable on the first day of May.
Occupation taxes levied on pawnbroker transactions shall be due and payable on
a monthly basis no later than the last day of the calendar month immediately
after the month in which the subject pawnbroker transactions occur. Every
occupation tax levied by this chapter at a daily or yearly rate must be paid in
one payment in advance before the business is commenced. Upon the payment of
any occupation taxes by any person or persons to the City Clerk, the Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated and specifying the person paying said tax
and the amount paid. The City Clerk shall have the option to provide a single
receipt for the aggregate amount of all occupation taxes paid on pawnbroker
transactions during a calendar year, so long as the city maintains a current
record of occupation taxes paid during the year, and the receipt is provided no
later than March 1 following the calendar year in which the taxes are paid.
Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the master fee ordinance or
other ordinance of the city, the revenue collected shall then be immediately
deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall
keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms
and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then
be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (‘79 Code, § 10-505) (Ord. 59, passed - -; Am. Ord. 552,
passed 8-4-92; Am. Ord. 903, passed 3-18-04; Am. Ord. 1364, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.06 NONREFUNDABLE.
   No person paying an occupation tax under this chapter shall be entitled to a
refund of any tax so paid.
(‘79 Code, § 10-506) (Am. Ord. 903, passed 3-18-03)
§ 113.07 GAS AND TELEPHONE COMPANIES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The payment of the occupation tax herein levied under §
113.02 of this chapter shall be in semi- annual payments using the calendar
half year ending June thirtieth and December thirty-first each year as a basis
for determining and computing the amount of tax payable. Each half year payment
shall be due 45 days after the termination of each calendar half year. All
payments of tax made after the due date shall draw interest at the rate of 3/4%
per month and, after payment has been in default for six months, a penalty of
5% shall be added thereto in addition to the interest charges and shall be paid
by the company or companies subject to the occupation tax. Each succeeding
payment may make such adjustment to be shown on the report hereinafter provided
for as may be necessary for uncollectibles or any other matters which may have
resulted in either an excess or deficiency in the amount of tax paid in any
previous period.
   (B)   All such companies at the same time as they make such half year
payments of tax shall file with the City Clerk a full, complete and detailed
statement of the gross receipts subject to the occupation tax provided for in §
113.02, and said statement shall be duly verified and sworn to by the Manager
in charge of the business of the particular company in the city or by a higher
managerial employee of such company, and the city shall have the right at any
time to inspect through its officers, agents or representatives the books and
records of such company for the purpose of verifying such report or reports.
However, in case any company shall refuse, fail or neglect to furnish or file
such report or reports at the time required by this chapter or shall fail or
refuse to permit the city to inspect the books and records of such company for
the purpose of verifying such report or reports, then and in that event, the
occupation tax for the preceding half year shall be estimated by the City
Council and said amount so estimated shall be paid within 45 days following the
end of the half year as required by §
113.02, and said amount shall draw interest and penalties as further provided
in this section.
(‘79 Code, § 10-507) (Ord. 59, passed - -; Am. Ord. 552, passed 8-4-92)
§ 113.08 CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM OR CABLE SERVICE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which is maintaining and operating any
cable television system or providing any cable service within the boundaries of
the city, as constituted from time to time, shall pay to the city a franchise
fee as provided in §
115.050 of this code. This payment shall be in addition to any other tax or
payment owed to the city by such person, firm, or corporation.
(‘79 Code, § 10-507.01) (Ord. 242, passed 6-19-79; Am. Ord. 365, passed 12-4-
84; Am. Ord. 806, passed 5-16-00)
Statutory reference:
   City cable television ordinance, see
Chapter 115
§ 113.09 LICENSING; LOTTERIES AND GAMES OF CHANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who engages in the business of selling, leasing
or delivering possession or custody of gambling devices for consideration to a
person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or
lotteries.
      GAMBLING DEVICE. Any and all machines or devices used by a person engaged
in the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or lotteries.
      GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES. Those forms of gambling authorized by
the state of Nebraska pursuant to the Constitution of the state of Nebraska,
article III, section 24.
      PERSON ENGAGED IN THE OCCUPATION OF CONDUCTING GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR
LOTTERIES. Any person who operates, owns or is the lessee of a place of
business where any game of chance and/or lottery activity is conducted, whether
or not any other type of business is conducted on the premises; or, any person
who either directly controls or manages the games of chance and/or lotteries or
owns any machine or device used to engage in the occupation of games of chance
and/or lotteries, but does not sell, lease or deliver possession or custody of
such a device to other persons.
   (B)   Occupation tax. An occupation tax is hereby imposed on each person
engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the city on a contract basis for one or more licensed organizations.
Every person conducting games of chance and lottery activities within the city
shall pay the tax in the amount and manner specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (C)   Amount of occupation tax for persons engaged in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries. The occupation tax for each person
engaging in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the city on a contract basis for one or more licensed organizations
shall be such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council,
and a current record of such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk. The
tax shall be paid on a calendar-quarter basis on or before the 15th day
following the last day of each calendar quarter.
   (D)   Amount of occupation tax for distributor. The occupation tax for
engaging in the occupation of distributing gambling devices within the city
shall be such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council,
and a current record of such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk. The
tax shall be paid on a calendar-quarter basis on or before the 15th day
following the last day of each calendar quarter.
   (E)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
occupation of conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first
obtaining a license to do so.
   (F)   License application. Every person desiring a license required by the
provisions of this chapter shall make application to the City Clerk.
Accompanying each application shall be:
      (1)   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that such
member will be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations for each
occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries which he or she supervises.
      (2)   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for the
proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, fee, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense will be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the state of Nebraska and the city
and that all profits will be spent for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Display of license. Every license issued under the provisions of this
division shall be conspicuously displayed at the place where the game of chance
and/or lottery activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
   (H)   License fee. The license fee for engaging in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries within the city shall be such amount
as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of
such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk. The tax shall be paid on a
calendar-quarter basis on or before the 15th day following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
   (I)   Exemption. Notwithstanding anything in this §
113.09 above to the contrary, licensed organizations, as defined in applicable
state statutes, that are operating games of chance or lotteries in compliance
with such statutes, and all other applicable rules and regulations, and all
operators of a Keno lottery pursuant to Neb. RS 9-601 et seq. and written
agreement with the city, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
Keno lottery shall not be operated in the city pursuant to Neb. RS 9-601,
except upon approval of and a written agreement with the city.
(‘79 Code, § 10-507.02) (Ord. 512, passed 11-5-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION; REMEDIES
§ 113.25 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Administration. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
chapter, other provisions of the code or ordinances, administration of
provisions of this chapter is hereby vested in the City Administrator or any
designee of the City Administrator (“City Administrator"), who shall be
authorized to prescribe forms and rules and regulations in conformity with this
chapter as the City Administrator determines necessary or appropriate for the
making of returns or for the ascertainment, assessment, collection,
administration, or enforcement of the taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Notices. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, it shall be
sufficient for the purpose of this chapter that any notices required to be
given to a taxpayer be in writing and personally delivered to the taxpayer or
provided to the taxpayer by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested at the taxpayer's last-known address, or otherwise in
accordance with applicable law.
   (C)   Duty to keep books and records. It shall be the duty of every taxpayer
to keep and preserve suitable records and other books or accounts as may be
necessary to determine the amount of any tax for which such taxpayer is liable
under this chapter.
      (1)   Records of the gross revenues, receipts, or such other basis by
which any tax is calculated or measured shall be kept separate and apart from
other records in order to facilitate the examination of books and records as
necessary for the collection of taxes pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every such taxpayer to keep and preserve
for a period of four years all such books, invoices and other records, which
shall be open for examination at any time by the City Administrator. If such
taxpayer keeps or maintains the taxpayer's books, invoices, accounts and other
records, or any thereof, outside of the city, upon demand by the City
Administrator the taxpayer shall make the same available at a suitable place
within the city, to be designated by the City Administrator, for examination,
inspection or audit by the City Administrator as the City Administrator from
time to time determines. The taxpayer shall reimburse the city for the
reasonable costs of the examination, inspection, or audit if the City
Administrator determines that the taxpayer paid 90% or less of the tax owing
for the period of the examination.
      (3)   The City Administrator, in the City Administrator's discretion, may
make, permit or cause to be made the examination, inspection or audit of books,
invoices, accounts or other records so kept or maintained by such taxpayer
outside of the city at the place where same are kept or maintained or at any
place outside the city where the same will be made available, provided such
taxpayer shall have entered into a binding agreement with the city to reimburse
it for all costs and expenses incurred by it in order to have such examination,
inspection or audit made in such place.
   (D)   Investigation of taxpayer's books. For the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of a return or payment, or for the purpose of determining the
amount of tax due from any taxpayer, the City Administrator may conduct
investigations and hold hearings concerning any matters arising out of or
related to this chapter; may examine any relevant books, papers, records or
memoranda of any such taxpayer; may require the attendance or appearance of
such taxpayer, or any officer or employee of such taxpayer, or of any person
having knowledge thereof; and may take testimony or require proof of
information provided by the taxpayer. The City Administrator shall have power
to administer oaths to such persons.
   (E)   Sale of business. Whenever any taxpayer sells the taxpayer's business
subject to any tax under this chapter or quits engaging in such business, the
taxpayer shall notify the city at least 30 days before closing of the sale or
cessation of operations, and any tax payable under this chapter shall become
immediately due and payable and the taxpayer shall immediately make a report
and pay the tax due upon the earlier of closing or cessation of business.
   (F)   Status of unpaid tax in bankruptcy or receivership. Whenever the
business or property of any taxpayer subject to this chapter is placed in
receivership, bankruptcy or assignment for the benefit of creditors, or seized
under distraint for property taxes, all taxes, penalties and interest imposed
by this chapter and for which the taxpayer is in any way liable under the terms
of this chapter shall be a prior and preferred lien against all the property of
the taxpayer, except as to preexisting claims or liens of a bona fide
mortgagee, pledgee, judgment creditor or purchaser whose rights shall have
attached prior to the filing of the notice as hereinafter provided on the
property of the taxpayer, other than the goods, stock-in-trade, and business
fixtures of such taxpayer. No sheriff, receiver, assignee or other officer
shall sell the property of any person subject to this chapter under process or
order of any court without first ascertaining from the City Administrator the
amount of any taxes due and payable under this chapter. If there be any such
taxes due, owing and unpaid, it shall be the duty of such officer to first pay
the amount of such taxes out of the proceeds of such sale before making payment
of any moneys to any judgment creditor or other claimants of whatsoever kind or
nature, except the costs of the proceedings and other preexisting claims or
liens as above provided.
   (G)   Release of liens. The taxes imposed by this chapter, together with the
interest and penalties herein provided and the costs of collection which may be
incurred, shall be and, until paid, remain a first and prior lien, except as
otherwise provided by constitution or statute, superior to all other liens, on
all the merchandise, furniture and fixtures, tools and equipment of the
taxpayer within the city; may be foreclosed by seizing under distraint and sale
of so much of said merchandise, furniture and fixtures, tools and equipment as
may be necessary to discharge the lien; or may be foreclosed by any other
method allowed by law or equity. The lien created by this chapter shall apply
only to tax obligations incurred after the adoption of applicable provisions of
this chapter on which the taxes or lien is based. Any lien for taxes as shown
on the records of the County Clerks and Recorders as herein provided shall,
upon the payment of all taxes, penalties and interest covered thereby, be
released by the City Administrator in the same manner as mortgages or judgments
are released.
   (H)   Statute of limitations. Any suit for collection of any taxes imposed
by this chapter or for any interest thereon or penalties with respect thereto
shall be instituted, or any other action to collect the same shall be
commenced, or any notice of lien shall be filed in accordance with Nebraska
law. The taxpayer and the City Administrator may agree in writing to an
extension of any limitation and the period so agreed may be extended by
subsequent agreements in writing.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.26 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN OR PAY; DELINQUENCY; ASSESSMENT BY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   If any person neglects or refuses to file a return or pay any taxes as
required by this chapter, the City Administrator may proceed to collect the tax
in accordance with applicable law. Not in limitation of the foregoing sentence,
the City Administrator may make an estimate, based upon such information as may
be reasonably available to the City Administrator, of the amount of the taxes
due for the period or periods for which the taxpayer is delinquent, and upon
the basis of such estimated amount, compute and assess the tax and in addition
thereto such penalties and interest as applicable under the circumstances
pursuant to §
113.30 below. Interest shall compound quarterly.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall give the delinquent taxpayer written
notice of any such estimated taxes, penalties, and interest. Such estimate
shall be an assessment, and such assessment shall be final and due and payable
from the taxpayer to the city ten days from the date of service or mailing of
the notice; however, within such ten-day period the delinquent taxpayer may
petition the City Administrator for a revision or modification of such
assessment and shall, within such ten-day period, furnish the City
Administrator the facts and figures supporting a different amount of such
taxes. Such petition and the facts and figures submitted shall be submitted in
writing and shall be given under oath of the taxpayer.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be authorized to modify such assessment
as the City Administrator determines appropriate in accordance with the facts
and figures which the City Administrator deems correct. Any adjusted assessment
shall be made in writing and notice thereof provided to the taxpayer within ten
days. All decisions shall become final upon the expiration of 30 days from the
date of service or mailing unless proceedings are commenced within that time
for appeal in the District Court of Sarpy County, Nebraska in accordance with
applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.27 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If the City Administrator finds that collection of any tax will be
jeopardized by delay, the City Administrator, in the City Administrator's
discretion, may declare the taxable period immediately terminated, determine
the tax, and issue notice and demand for payment thereof; and, having done so,
the tax shall be due and payable forthwith, and the City Administrator may
proceed to collect such tax.
   (B)   Collection may be stayed if the taxpayer gives such security for
payment as shall be satisfactory to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.28 RECOVERY OF UNPAID TAX BY ACTION AT LAW.
   (A)   The City Administrator may treat any taxes, penalties or interest due
and unpaid as a debt due the city, recoverable as permitted by applicable law
or equity.
   (B)   In case of failure to pay the taxes, or any portion thereof, or any
penalty or interest thereon when due, the City Administrator may recover at law
the amount of such taxes, penalties and interest in any court of Sarpy County
or of the county in which the taxpayer resides or has a place of business.
   (C)   The return of the taxpayer or the assessment, penalties, or interest
made or calculated by the City Administrator, as herein provided, shall be
prima facie proof of the amount due.
   (D)   Such actions, in addition to any other permissible action under
applicable law, may be actions in attachments, and writs of attachment may be
issued to the constable or sheriff, as the case may be; and in any such
proceeding no bond shall be required of the City Administrator except as may be
required by statute, nor shall any constable or sheriff require of the City
Administrator an indemnifying bond for executing the writ of attachment or writ
of execution upon any judgment entered in such proceedings; and, in accordance
with the procedure established by statute, if any, the City Administrator may
prosecute appeals or writs of error in such cases without the necessity of
providing bond therefor.
   (E)   The City Attorney, when requested by the City Administrator, may
commence an action for the recovery of taxes, penalties or interest due under
this chapter. This and all other remedies set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to all other applicable remedies provided in the code, statutes or
applicable law.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.29 CITY A PARTY TO TITLE ACTIONS FOR DETERMINATION OF LIEN.
   In any action affecting title, ownership, or rights in or to real estate or
personal property subject to attachment of a lien for collection of taxes
pursuant to this chapter, the city may be made a party defendant for the
purpose of obtaining a judgment or determination of its lien upon the property
involved therein.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.30 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Penalties and interest for deficiencies for reasons other than fraud
or intent to evade. If any part of any deficiency under this chapter is for
reasons other than fraud or an intent to evade the tax, there shall be added
10% of the total amount of the deficiency; and in such case interest shall be
collected at the rate of 1% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of
the deficiency and additional amount from the earlier of the date the return or
payment was due until filed and paid, from the person required to file the
return or pay the tax; which deficiency, interest and addition shall be paid
within ten days after written notice and demand by the City Administrator.
   (B)   Penalties and interest for deficiency in cases of intent to defraud or
evade. If any part of a deficiency under this chapter is due to fraud or intent
to evade the tax, then there shall be added 50% of the total amount of the
deficiency, and in such case the whole amount of the tax that is unpaid and
such additions, and interest on such amounts and additions calculated in the
manner described in division (A) above, shall be paid within ten days after
written notice and demand by the City Administrator.
   (C)   Order of application of payments. Any payments received by the city
pursuant to this section shall be applied in the following order: first to pay
any interest, next to pay any late fees or other charges, and any remainder to
the principal amount of tax that is due.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
§ 113.31 AUTHORITY OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO WAIVE PENALTY.
   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to waive, for good cause shown,
any penalty assessed pursuant to this chapter. Any interest imposed in excess
of 6% per annum shall be deemed a penalty.
(Ord. 1361, passed 8-20-19)
RESTAURANTS AND DRINKING PLACES OCCUPATION TAX
§ 113.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE RATE. The rate of tax from time to time specified in the master
fee ordinance for the tax imposed by this subchapter. The initial tax rate of
1.5% and any subsequent rate as adjusted shall satisfy any applicable
requirements of Neb. RS 18-1208, including without limitation, that the initial
rate or any increased rate or other rate adjustment shall be projected to
generate annual occupation tax revenues that are not in excess of the
applicable amount listed in Neb. RS 18-1208(2), unless approved by registered
voters at an election held within the city or otherwise permitted by Nebraska
Statutes.
   BEVERAGE. Any drinkable liquid for humans for hydration, nutrition, taste,
pleasure or similar purposes, including without limitation, any such liquid
that is frozen, alcoholic or nonalcoholic.
   CITY. The City of La Vista and the area within the corporate limits of the
City of La Vista, as adjusted from time to time.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City of La Vista City Administrator or any designee
of the City Administrator.
   CITY CLERK. The City of La Vista City Clerk or any designee of the City
Clerk.
   DRINKING PLACE.
      (1)   Any establishment or business offering on-premises consumption of
alcoholic and/or nonalcoholic beverages including, but not limited to, bars,
taverns, coffee shops, night clubs, dance halls, concession or other types of
stands, drive-through, take out, and “to go" facilities, and establishments,
facilities, or spaces or areas at or within race tracks, golf courses, sports
facilities, meeting or event facilities, arenas, stadiums, hotels, motels, bed
and breakfasts, boarding houses, hospitals, grocery stores, shopping centers,
convenience stores, supermarkets, or office buildings where beverages are
obtained or consumed if a charge is made for them. The term includes all types
of facilities, locations and delivery methods by, from or through which a
DRINKING PLACE from time to time might be conducted, including without
limitation any permanent, temporary, fixed, mobile, contracted, third party,
stand-alone, collocated, joint, or bundled facilities, locations, or delivery
methods. Without limiting the foregoing, the term includes caterers, stands and
mobile vendors, push carts, beverage wagons or trucks, and other temporary or
mobile facilities from which beverages ready for consumption are provided. Also
included are places consisting solely of drive-through facilities. A DRINKING
PLACE may also be a restaurant.
      (2)   The term does not include any establishment or business offering
beverages free of charge. The term FREE OF CHARGE means without any
consideration, donation, contributions, or monetary charges of any nature paid
for access to the beverages and, without limitation, requires the absence of
any admission charge, cover charge, table reservation fee, gate charges, seat
charges, entertainment fee, green fees, or required minimum purchase of
beverages, food, or merchandise.
      (3)   The term does not include a place offering beverages on premises
owned or operated by a civic, charitable, educational, religious, governmental,
or political organization exempt from income taxes under the United States
Internal Revenue Code, except as to use of such place or premises by a person
that is not exempt from income taxes under the United States Internal Revenue
Code to offer beverages to the public.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. October 1, 2019.
   ENGAGED IN. To conduct, offer to the public, carry on, or take part in the
operation of an enterprise or activity as owner, operator, or agent. Not in
limitation of foregoing parts of this definition, a person renting or using a
facility, place or premises for a taxable enterprise or activity or service, as
a promoter, producer, one-time event, full-time, or otherwise, shall be
considered to be engaged in the enterprise or activity.
   FOOD. All edible substances, whether solid, semi-solid, liquid,
concentrated, frozen, dried, dehydrated, or otherwise, for ingestion, chewing,
or consumption by humans for nutrition, taste, refreshment, pleasure or similar
purposes.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   The total amount of receipts, revenues, consideration, donations,
contributions, or monetary charges of any nature received for or to provide
access to food or beverage without any deduction on account of expenses, taxes,
or other costs.
      (2)   The term includes, without limitation:
         (a)   The price charged for food or beverages;
         (b)   Any admission charge, cover charge, membership fee, table
reservation fee, gate charges, seat charges, or entertainment fee or similar
payment if the payment gives the payor a right to access or obtain food or
beverage which is otherwise subject to this tax;
         (c)   The amount received by a person from vendors or contractors who
provide food or beverages to that person’s customers on or off the premises and
which are within the scope of this tax; and
         (d)   Receipts from the sale of beverages or food of a restaurant or
drinking place for immediate consumption even if it is not actually consumed on
the premises, including without limitation the receipts from prepared "take
out," "drive-through," or "to go" food or beverages, or food or beverages
provide through a food or beverage delivery platform or other kind of food or
beverage delivery service.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   The value of food or beverages furnished by restaurants or
drinking places to employees as part of their compensation when no charge is
made to the employees;
         (b)   Tips to an employee of a restaurant or drinking place when the
amount of the tip is wholly in the discretion of the purchaser and the full
amount of the tip is turned over to the employee, regardless whether or not the
tip is paid to the employee or added to the bill;
         (c)   Payments received by a caterer from a civic, charitable,
educational, religious, governmental, or political organization exempt from
income taxes under the United States Internal Revenue Code for food or beverage
delivered to the premises of the organization;
         (d)   Receipts from sales of food or beverage exempt or otherwise not
subject to Nebraska sales and use taxes imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act of
1967, as amended from time to time; or
         (e)   Receipts from sales of snack foods or beverages, meaning
unopened bottles, cans or packages of soft drinks, alcoholic beverages, sports
drinks, flavored drinks, bottled water, chewing gum, candy, popcorn, pretzels,
nuts, cookies, donuts, crackers, chips, or other items of essentially the same
nature, prepackaged in sealed containers and sold for home consumption, except
when provided in connection with any prepared food or beverages with respect to
which receipts from the snack foods or beverages, together with the prepared
food or beverages, are subject to Nebraska sales and use taxes pursuant to the
Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967.
   PERSON. Any natural person, individual, partnership, association,
organization, corporation, or entity of any kind or character engaging in a
restaurant or drinking place.
   RATE REVIEW DATE. The date that is two years after the effective date, and
every two years thereafter or any other date that the City Council or City
Administrator determines necessary or advisable in connection with setting or
reviewing a rate or adjusted rate for the tax pursuant to this subchapter in
accordance with applicable law.
   RATE REVIEW PERIOD. The applicable period ending the day before a rate
review date that is used for purposes of reviewing the applicable rate.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   Any place that is kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out
as a place where food is prepared and sold for immediate consumption either on
the premises or elsewhere.
      (2)   The term includes, but is not limited to, cafes, grills, bistros,
delicatessens, coffee shops, bakeries, lunch counters, sandwich stands,
concession or other types of stands, drive-through, take out, and “to go”
facilities, and establishments, facilities, spaces or areas at or within race
tracks, golf courses, sports facilities, meeting or event facilities, arenas,
stadiums, hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, boarding houses, hospitals,
grocery stores, shopping centers, convenience stores, supermarkets, or office
buildings where food is obtained or consumed if a separate charge is made for
the food. A RESTAURANT may also be a drinking place. The term includes all
types of facilities, locations and delivery methods by, from or through which a
RESTAURANT from time to time might be conducted, including without limitation
any permanent, temporary, fixed, mobile, contracted, third-party, standalone,
collocated, joint, or bundled facilities, locations, or delivery methods.
Without limiting the foregoing, the term includes caterers, stands and mobile
food vendors, push carts, lunch or food wagons or trucks, ice cream trucks, and
other temporary or mobile facilities from which food ready for consumption is
sold. Also included are places consisting solely of drive-through facilities.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   A place operated by a religious, civic, educational, charitable,
governmental, or political organization exempt from income taxes under the
United States Internal Revenue Code where food is offered solely to its members
or students;
         (b)   A public or private daycare center that offers food solely to
its employees or the children staying at the center;
         (c)   A convalescent home, nursing home, home for the aged or
infirmed, or substance abuse facility that offers food solely to its residents;
         (d)   Premises where food is obtained solely from vending machines
operated by coin, cards, or other per-purchase operation regardless of whether
the food may be consumed on the premises;
         (e)   Temporary stands at annual festivals or similar events from
which food ready for consumption is sold unless entrance to the place at which
the food is sold is subject to an admission charge;
         (f)   Any establishment or business offering food free of charge. The
term FREE OF CHARGE means without any consideration, donation, contributions,
or monetary charges of any nature paid for access to the food and without
limitation, requires the absence of any admission charge, cover charge, table
reservation fee, gate charges, seat charges, entertainment fee, green fees, or
required minimum purchase of food, beverages, or merchandise; or
         (g)   A place offering food on premises owned or operated by a civic,
charitable, educational, religious, governmental, or political organization
exempt from income taxes under the United States Internal Revenue Code, except
as to use of such place or premises by a person that is not exempt from income
taxes under the United States Internal Revenue Code to offer food to the
public.
Provided, however, with the exception of division (d) above, any such place,
center, home, facility, premises, establishment, or business described in this
division (3) shall constitute a restaurant subject to the occupation tax with
respect to any receipts from food sales that are subject to Nebraska sales and
use taxes pursuant to the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967.
   RETAIL SALE. Sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   TAXPAYER. Any person engaged in a restaurant or drinking place who is
required to pay the tax herein imposed.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
§ 113.41 FINDINGS, INTENT AND PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The City Council finds, determines, and declares that persons engaging
in restaurants and drinking places are benefited from tourism, leisure, and
recreational activities that place unique demands on the city's resources, but
which are activities that should be promoted and encouraged. Further, residents
and nonresidents who patronize restaurants and drinking places are enjoying a
discretionary activity that is dependent upon, and generating revenue from, the
restaurant's or drinking place’s location within the city and its access to
services provided by the city. Subjecting restaurants and drinking places to
taxation for purposes of raising revenues is fair, reasonable, appropriate, and
just.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 16-205, the City Council finds,
determines, and declares that restaurants and drinking places form discrete and
reasonable classifications of businesses, users of space, or kinds of
transactions engaged in within the city and it is appropriate that an
occupation tax be imposed on such classifications of businesses, users of
space, or kinds of transactions for the purpose of raising revenue to support
and further city activities, services, and purposes. These findings,
determinations, and declarations are made with due recognition of such
businesses, users of space, and transactions within the city and the relation
of such businesses, users of space, and transactions to the municipal welfare
and the expenditures required of the city, and with consideration of just,
proper and equitable distribution of tax burdens within the city as the City
Council in its sole discretion determines appropriate, and other proper
considerations.
   (C)   The City Council further determines that some activity or revenue
should be excluded from the scope of this subchapter, for reasons including
without limitation:
      (1)   The activity is offered without charge;
      (2)   The activity has a primary purpose other than to generate revenue
for the business or establishment by the sale of food or drink;
      (3)   The revenue is generated from activity that does not have the
discretionary characteristics and qualities that support using restaurant or
drinking place revenue as a measure of determining the amount of taxation;
      (4)   The sale of food or beverages is primarily intended to encourage
and support the civic, charitable, educational, or religious activities of a
nonprofit corporation; and/or
      (5)   The sale of food or drink is by a nonprofit corporation contracting
with the City of La Vista and assessing a tax measured by those sales
potentially has the contradictory effect of reducing revenue paid to the city
as compensation for the contract.
   (D)   The restaurants and drinking places occupation tax pursuant to this
subchapter is specifically imposed for general revenue purposes and proceeds of
the tax shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city, except as may
otherwise be approved by the City Council from time to time to use or pledge
such proceeds for one or more specific projects of the city and deposit such
proceeds in a special fund rather than the city's General Fund.
   (E)   The Mayor and City Council find and determine based on analysis
supplied by the City Administrator ("analysis") that annual revenues generated
by the tax at the initial applicable rate during the initial period ending on
the first rate review date are not projected to exceed $700,000. The Mayor and
City Council hereby ratify, affirm, adopt, and approve the analysis.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
§ 113.42 TAX LEVIED AND IMPOSED.
   (A)   On and after the effective date, and in each calendar month
thereafter, there is hereby levied and imposed a restaurant and drinking place
occupation tax upon each and every person conducting, engaging in, or operating
a restaurant or drinking place within the city at any time during a calendar
month. The tax shall begin on the effective date at 4:00 a.m. The amount of the
tax shall be the applicable rate of all gross receipts for each calendar month
derived from the retail sale of food or beverages of restaurants and drinking
places subject to this tax. It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in a
restaurant or drinking place to fail to pay the tax required by this
subchapter, or to fail to file any return or information required by this
subchapter. Each day any such person engages in a restaurant or drinking place
after failing to pay the required tax, or failing to file any required return
or information, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as
provided in §
10.99 of this code, in addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter;
provided, however, delinquency in payment of the tax required by this section,
or conviction for violation of this section, shall not be grounds for
suspension or revocation of any other license issued to any person within the
city under any licensing provision of this code or other ordinances, or of any
license issued by any licensing authority pursuant to Nebraska Statutes.
   (B)   The City Administrator, within an administratively practicable time
after each rate review date, shall estimate projected annual revenues until the
next rate review date and make such recommendations as the City Administrator
determines necessary or appropriate, including without limitation any
recommended adjustments to the applicable rate or rate review date as
determined necessary or appropriate to satisfy applicable Nebraska Statutes,
including without limitation Neb. RS 18-1208. Such estimates, projections, and
any recommended adjustments shall be based on actual revenues from the tax
during the applicable rate review period and such other information, factors,
or considerations as the City Administrator determines appropriate. Any
proposed adjustment to the applicable rate shall be presented as an amendment
to the master fee ordinance for consideration at a City Council meeting. Any
such adjustment, if approved, shall be effective beginning at 4:00 a.m. on the
first day of the fiscal year beginning immediately after the adjustment is
approved, or on such other date as specified by the City Council.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is a tax on the taxpayer for the
privilege of engaging in the particular occupations within the city. The person
engaged in a restaurant or drinking place may elect to itemize the tax levied
and pass the cost of the tax through to customers or purchasers on bills,
receipts, or other invoices provided to such customers or purchasers but such
itemization and pass-through of the cost of the tax shall not be required and
each person engaged in the restaurant or drinking place shall remain liable for
the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, the City
Council at any time shall have the option to submit any proposed tax or tax
rate increase described in this subchapter to registered voters of the city.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
§ 113.43 TAX IMPOSED FOR REVENUE PURPOSES; TAX CUMULATIVE.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is for revenue purposes to support
the government of the city and its activities. The levy of the tax under this
subchapter is in addition to all other fees, taxes, excises, and licenses
levied or imposed under any contract or any other provisions of this code or
ordinances of the city from time to time, and in addition to any fee, tax,
excise, or license imposed by the state or federal government.
   (B)   Not in limitation of immediately preceding division (A) above, payment
of the tax imposed by this subchapter shall not relieve the person paying it
from the payment of any other tax now or hereafter imposed by contract or
ordinance or by this code, including without limitation those imposed for any
business or occupation carried on along with the restaurant or drinking place,
unless otherwise provided therein. It is the intent of the Council that the
occupation tax imposed by this subchapter shall be cumulative unless otherwise
expressly provided.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
§ 113.44 RETURN AND ADMINISTRATION ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Each and every person engaged in a restaurant or drinking place within
the city for any period of time on or after the effective date shall prepare
and file with the City Administrator a return for each calendar month and at
the same time pay to the city the tax herein imposed. The return shall be on
and in such form and content and include such supporting data as may be
prescribed by the City Administrator from time to time, shall be verified and
sworn to by an officer responsible for the restaurant or drinking place, and
shall be filed with the City Administrator on or before the last day of the
month immediately following receipt of any gross receipts included for purposes
of calculating the tax. Returns and tax payments shall be filed and paid: (1)
by hand delivery or by United States mail, properly addressed, postage prepaid
and postmarked no later than the last day of the appropriate month; or (2) by
electronic filing and payment by Automated Clearing Housing or credit card no
later than the last day of the appropriate month, and in accordance with such
procedures as prescribed by the City Administrator from time to time.
   (B)   As reimbursement for any additional administrative costs and expenses
connected with the tax, a taxpayer at the time of each tax payment may elect to
deduct, withhold, and retain from such payment 2% of the amount that is
otherwise due and payable to the city (“administration allowance"). Any payment
that is made without reduction for the administration allowance shall be deemed
an irrevocable election by the taxpayer to forego the administration allowance
with respect to that payment.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
§ 113.45 QUARTERLY RETURN AND PAYMENT ELECTION.
   Notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, on and after April 8,
2020, any taxpayer engaged in a restaurant or drinking place within the city
may prepare and file returns and pay taxes under this section on a quarterly
basis, rather than monthly, by filing an election with the City Administrator
in accordance with such rules or regulations as the City Administrator from
time to time may specify, including without limitation any such rules or
regulations specifying the form, content, or timing within which any such
election shall be made ("quarterly return and payment election"). Any such
quarterly return and payment election shall be subject to approval of the City
Administrator, and further shall be subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   A quarterly return and payment election shall be effective with
respect to returns and taxes of a taxpayer that are due and payable on or after
the day the quarterly return and payment election is filed with the city, as
determined by the City Administrator, unless the City Administrator and
taxpayer agree to a later effective date;
   (B)   Taxpayers making a quarterly return and payment election shall prepare
and file returns and pay taxes under this subchapter no later than the last day
of the month immediately after the end of each calendar quarter during which
any gross receipts are received that are included for purposes of calculating
the tax. For this purpose, the calendar quarters are March, June, September,
and December. All gross receipts for the quarter shall be included, except for
any gross receipts that were included for purposes of any prior return and tax
payment to the city;
   (C)   A quarterly return and payment election shall be irrevocable and the
taxpayer shall make all future payments on a quarterly basis. Provided,
however, in the event circumstances arise that were not reasonably foreseeable
to the taxpayer when making a quarterly return and payment election, the
taxpayer may file with the City Administrator a written request to revoke a
quarterly return and payment election and begin preparing and filing returns
and paying taxes on a monthly basis. Any such request shall be subject to
approval of the City Administrator in her or his sole discretion; and
   (D)   Any other requirements specified by the City Administrator from time
to time.
(Ord. 1392, passed 4-7-20)
§ 113.46 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The occupation tax imposed by this subchapter shall commence on the
effective date and shall continue and remain in effect unless terminated by
city ordinance. Provided, however, the tax shall be eligible for
reconsideration every ten years as follows. The City Council shall vote on any
motion of any City Council member at a Council meeting that is seconded
directing the City Administrator to prepare a proposed ordinance to terminate
the tax. The motion must be made within the first 90 days of the fiscal year
beginning immediately after the ten-year anniversary of such tax, or within the
first 90 days of the fiscal year beginning immediately after any subsequent
ten-year anniversary. If the motion is approved, the City Administrator shall
prepare a proposed ordinance for consideration of the City Council at a
subsequent Council meeting held within an administratively practicable time. If
a motion is not made, or if the motion or proposed ordinance fails, the tax
will continue in effect.
(Ord. 1365, passed 9-3-19)
ENHANCED EMPLOYMENT AREAS AND GENERAL BUSINESS OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 113.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the Act or the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ACT. Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2155. References to the ACT or any other
Nebraska statutes shall be deemed to mean the ACT or such other statutes as
amended from time to time.
   AGENCY. The La Vista Community Development Agency.
   AUTHORIZED WORK. Permissible purposes for proceeds of general business
occupation taxes within enhanced employment areas that are not blighted and
substandard community redevelopment areas, pursuant to Neb, RS 18-2142.04.
   BOND.
      (1)   In connection with levies of general business occupation taxes
within enhanced employment areas that are within community redevelopment areas,
has the meaning provided in the Act, including without limitation Neb. RS 18-
2103; and
      (2)   In connection with levies of general business occupation taxes
within enhanced employment areas that are outside community redevelopment
areas, has the meaning provided in Neb. RS 18-2142.04.
   CITY. The City of La Vista and areas within the corporate limits of the City
of La Vista, as may be adjusted from time to time.
   CITY CLERK. The City of La Vista City Clerk.
   COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AREA. Has the meaning provided in Neb. RS 18-2103.
   DIRECTOR. The City of La Vista Finance Director or her or his designee.
   ENGAGED IN. To conduct, offer to the public, carry on, or take part in the
operation of a business or other activity as owner, operator, or agent in which
products or services are sold, leased, or rented for purposes other than
resale, sublease, or subrent. Not in limitation of immediately preceding
sentence, renting or using a facility, place or premises for a taxable activity
as a promoter, producer, one-time event, part-time, full-time, or otherwise,
shall be considered to be ENGAGED IN a business and taxable activity.
   ENHANCED EMPLOYMENT AREA. An area not exceeding 600 acres:
      (1)   Within a community redevelopment area, as described in Neb RS 18-
2103(11)(a); or
      (2)   Not within a community redevelopment area, as described in Neb RS
18-2103(11)(b).
   An ENHANCED EMPLOYMENT AREA shall be designated by resolution, ordinance, or
other action of the agency or city, as appropriate under the circumstances.
   GENERAL BUSINESS OCCUPATION TAX. A tax imposed pursuant to the authority
granted by this subchapter or the Act, including without limitation Neb RS 18-
2142.02 and 18-2142.04.
   PERSON. Any natural person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
joint-stock company, association, organization, limited liability company,
corporation, or entity of any kind or character engaging in any activity that
is subject to a general business occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
subchapter or the Act, including Neb. RS 18-2142.02 or 18-2142.04.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Has the meaning provided in Neb. RS 18-2103.
   TAXPAYER. Any person engaged in a business or activity who is required to
pay a tax imposed in accordance with this subchapter or the Act, including Neb.
RS 18-2142.02 or 18-2142.04.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.56 GENERAL BUSINESS OCCUPATION TAXES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Neb RS 18-2142.02 and 18-2142.04 authorize the city to levy general
business occupation taxes within enhanced employment areas that are within or
outside blighted and substandard community redevelopment areas.
   (B)   The City Council determines that it is necessary, desirable, advisable
and in the best interests of the city to periodically impose and levy general
business occupation taxes within designated enhanced employment areas pursuant
to Neb. RS 18-2142.02 or 18-2142.04, as from time to time approved by the City
Council.
   (C)   The city hereby authorizes the levy of general business occupation
taxes from time to time as follows:
      (1)   Within community redevelopment areas. Pursuant to applicable
Nebraska statutes, including without limitation Neb RS 18-2103 and 18-2142.02,
upon the businesses and users of space within designated enhanced employment
areas that are within blighted and substandard community redevelopment areas
for the purpose of paying all or any part of the costs and expenses of any
redevelopment projects within such enhanced employment areas, or debt service
or other costs or expenses in connection with any bonds for such purposes, as
described in division (1) of the definition of “bond” in §
113.55, and stating such occupation taxes as an available source for payment;
or
      (2)   Outside community redevelopment areas. Pursuant to applicable
Nebraska statutes, including without limitation Neb RS 18-2142.04, upon the
businesses and users of space within designated enhanced employment areas that
are not within blighted and substandard community redevelopment areas for the
purpose of paying all or any part of the costs and expenses of authorized work
within such enhanced employment areas, or debt service or other costs or
expenses in connection with any bonds described in division (2) of the
definition of “bond” in §
113.55, the proceeds of which are expended for or allocated to authorized work
      Assessment, levy, collection, and use of proceeds of taxes pursuant to
this subchapter shall be specified by ordinance.
   (D)   Any such tax shall be for revenue purposes. The collection of such a
tax shall be made and enforced in such a manner as the City Council shall by
ordinance determine to produce the required revenue.
   (E)   General business occupation taxes pursuant to this subchapter and
applicable Nebraska statutes, including without limitation Neb. RS 18-2142.02
or 18-2142.04, shall be imposed upon such businesses or users of space within
such enhanced employment areas at such times and rates, based on such
classifications of businesses, users of spaces or transactions for such
purposes and periods of time, and subject to such other terms and conditions,
as from time to time specified by the City Council. Unless otherwise specified
by the City Council in connection with a particular general business and
occupation tax or enhanced employment area or otherwise by ordinance, taxes
shall be payable each calendar month.
   (F)   Any taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be taxes on the
taxpayers for the privilege of engaging in particular occupations within the
city. A person engaged in an activity that is subject to a general business
occupation tax may elect to itemize the tax levied and pass the cost of the tax
through to customers or purchasers on bills, receipts, or other invoices.
Provided, however, any such itemization, billing, invoicing, or other actions
to pass the cost of the tax through to customers or purchasers shall not be
required and shall not alter responsibility for the tax. Persons engaged in a
taxable activity shall remain solely liable for a tax imposed pursuant to this
subchapter, notwithstanding whether or not passing the cost of the tax through
to customers or purchasers is attempted or accomplished.
   (G)   Taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to any
applicable state or local laws, rules or regulations as adopted or amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.57 TAXES CUMULATIVE.
   (A)   Except as expressly stated to the contrary in any applicable contract,
ordinance, resolution, or statute, any tax pursuant to this subchapter shall be
in addition to all other fees, taxes, excises, and licenses levied or imposed
under any contract or any other provisions of this code or ordinances from time
to time, or any other fees, taxes, excises, costs, expenses, or other charges
imposed by any federal, state, or local government. Payment of the tax imposed
pursuant to this subchapter shall not relieve the person paying the same from
payment of any other tax now or hereafter due and owing. To specify and not
limit the foregoing, occupation taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall
be cumulative, except where otherwise expressly provided to the contrary.
   (B)   Provided, however, operation of a cable television system pursuant to
a franchise agreement or operation of a keno lottery game pursuant to an
operating agreement with the city shall not be subject to general business
occupation taxes under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.58 TERM.
   Any general business occupation taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter
shall commence and remain in effect for such period as specified by the City
Council, provided, however, a general business occupation tax at a minimum
shall remain in effect so long as the city has bonds outstanding which state
such occupation tax as an available source for payment.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.59 USE OF REVENUES.
   Proceeds of any tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be used for
the purpose of paying all or any part of the costs and expenses within the
designated enhanced employment area as authorized by the city in accordance
with applicable requirements of this subchapter or Nebraska statutes, including
without limitation Neb. RS 18-2142.02 or 18-2142.04.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.60 RETURN.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Council in connection with a
particular general business occupation tax and enhanced employment area, each
and every person engaged in an activity that is subject to a general business
occupation tax for any period of time shall prepare and file with the City
Administrator or the City Administrator’s designee a return for each calendar
month and at the same time pay to the city the tax imposed for such month. The
return shall be on and in such form and content, and include such supporting
data as may be prescribed by the City Administrator or the City Administrator’s
designee from time to time, shall be verified and sworn to by an authorized
officer of the taxpayer, and shall be filed with the City Administrator or City
Administrator’s designee on or before the last day of the month immediately
following receipt of any gross receipts included for purposes of calculating
the tax. Returns and tax payments shall be filed and paid: (1) by hand delivery
or by United States mail, properly addressed, postage prepaid and postmarked no
later than the last day of the appropriate month; or (2) by electronic filing
and payment by Automated Clearing House or credit card no later than the last
day of the appropriate month, and in accordance with such procedures as
prescribed by the City Administrator or the City Administrator’s designee from
time to time.
   (B)   As reimbursement for any additional administrative costs and expenses
connected with the tax, a taxpayer at the time of each tax payment may elect to
deduct, withhold, and retain from such payment 2% of the amount that is
otherwise due and payable to the city ("administration allowance”). Any payment
that is made without reduction for the administration allowance shall be deemed
an irrevocable election by the taxpayer to forego the administration allowance
with respect to that payment.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.61 ADMINISTRATION; REMEDIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter or any subsequent ordinance,
general business occupation taxes shall be administered in accordance with, and
any remedies shall be as provided in, §§
113.25 et seq. of this code.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
§ 113.62 CONSTRUCTION.
   In accordance with the Act, powers conferred by this subchapter, levy of any
general business occupation taxes pursuant to the authority granted by this
subchapter, and the authority to issue any bonds secured by or payable from any
general business occupation tax receipts, shall be additional and supplemental
to, independent of, and separate from any other occupation taxes or laws, and
considered complete and independent and not amendatory or limited by any other
provision of law. All provisions of this subchapter and grants of power,
authority, rights or discretion herein, and any related documents, instruments
or actions of the city, agency, or other proper authority arising out of this
subchapter, shall be liberally construed, and all incidental powers necessary
to carry into effect said provisions are hereby expressly granted and
conferred. This subchapter shall be full authority for the powers herein
granted, and no action, proceeding or election shall be required to exercise or
carry out any such provisions. If the provisions of this subchapter are
inconsistent with any other provisions of this code or ordinances, the
provisions of this subchapter shall control with respect to general business
occupation taxes described in such sections. Terms used in this subchapter
shall have the meanings as provided in the Act, except as otherwise expressly
provided in such sections.
(Ord. 1461, passed 10-18-22)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   City powers and duties
   
114.03   Owner of premises
   
114.04   Employer
   
114.05   Nuisance defined; abatement, hearing
   
114.06   Emergencies, authority to prohibit sales
Licensing
   
114.20   License required
   
114.21   Application, transfer
   
114.22   Licenses limited
   
114.23   Liquor application; city examination
   
114.24   Licensing consideration criteria
   
114.25   License application; personal appearance
   
114.26   Liquor license renewal
   
114.27   Grounds for revocation or suspension of license
   
114.28   Transfers of location of licenses; transfer fee, application,
withdrawal; fee retained; number of transfers allowable
   
114.29   Licenses for premises not yet constructed
   
114.30   Catering license
   
114.31   Special designated licenses
Regulations
   
114.40   Minors and incompetents
   
114.41   Credit sales
   
114.42   (Reserved)
   
114.43   Original package
   
114.44   Minors prohibited on licenses premises unless accompanied by parent or
adult; exception
   
114.45   Minor attempting to purchase prohibited
   
114.46   Hours of sale
   
114.47   Sale of beer; unlawful for “on sale” licensed premises to have other
alcoholic liquor on premises
   
114.48   No sale of alcohol, fit for beverage purposes, by nonbeverage users
   
114.49   Sanitary conditions
   
114.50   Hiring minors
   
114.51   Acquisition and possession
   
114.52   Removal of intoxicated persons from public property
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.49 or otherwise in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall be
used.
(Neb. RS 53-103) (‘79 Code, § 10-101) (Am. Ord. 1469, passed 12-6-22)
§ 114.02 CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act (sometimes referred to in
this chapter as the “Act”), the business of liquor licensees carried on within
the corporate limits of the city, including without limitation retail, bottle
club, craft brewery, microdistillery, manufacturer, farm winery, special
designated, catering, and promotional farmers market special designated
licensees and licensed premises and licensees within or adjacent to designated
entertainment districts of the city.
   (B)   Without limiting authority described or provided in subsection (A) or
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the City Council shall further have the
following powers and duties with respect to licensees within the corporate
limits of the city:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause any license in accordance with the
Act, subject to the right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any resident within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relative to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated, and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To conduct or cause such examinations and other actions authorized
by the Act in connection with any notice of cancellation or revocation served
on any applicant or licensee;
      (5)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided for resident complaints, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act,
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted relating to alcoholic liquor, subject to right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (6)   To fix times and places of hearings, receive evidence, and approve,
and take other actions as authorized by the Act in connection with any
application for a license, or renewal or expansion of a license or licensed
area; and
      (7)   To collect for the benefit of the state and the city all license
fees and occupation taxes as prescribed by law.
(Neb. RS 53-134) (‘79 Code, § 10-112) (Am. Ord. 1163, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord.
1354, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 12-6-22)
§ 114.03 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   If the owner of the licensed premises, any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises or the agent of such owner or
person knowingly permits the licensee to use such licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, such owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as such licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (‘79 Code, § 10-113)
§ 114.04 EMPLOYER.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
such act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and such employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (‘79 Code, § 10-114)
§ 114.05 NUISANCE DEFINED; ABATEMENT, HEARING.
   Any place where alcoholic liquors are sold in violation of the provisions of
said Nebraska Liquor Control Act or of this chapter is hereby defined to be a
nuisance and may be abated and suppressed after charges are made by the City
Council and a hearing had thereon, subject to reasonable notice being given the
parties charged with maintaining such nuisance.
(Neb. RS 53-190) (‘79 Code, § 10-122) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 114.06 EMERGENCIES, AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT SALES.
   (A)   Without limiting in any respect any authority now delegated to or
inherent in the office, the Mayor or the Acting Mayor is hereby authorized in
times of emergency or great and unusual public excitement to prohibit, by
proclamation, the possession in public places, the sale or transportation of
all intoxicating liquor including beer as well as all other beverages of
greater alcoholic content. The proclamation may also direct the closing of all
bars and packaged liquor dispensaries and any other places where intoxicating
liquor is stored or sold at either wholesale or retail prices. In the event of
the violation of the terms of the proclamation in places where other business
is carried on, the Mayor Acting Mayor, or any of the members of the City
Council or city officers in charge of enforcing the terms of the proclamation
may take such measures even though they may affect the other business as may be
necessary to insure compliance with the terms of the proclamation.
(‘79 Code, § 10-124)
   (B)   The city police officers or other person in charge of enforcing any
proclamation, issued pursuant to division (A) of this section, may use such
force as may be necessary to close summarily the places designated in the
proclamation and any police officer may place under arrest any person offering
any resistance to or failing to cooperate in carrying out the proclamation. The
proclamation may remain in effect as long as the emergency or state of public
excitement shall continue.
(‘79 Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
LICENSING
§ 114.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the city unless said person
shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act.
(‘79 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 APPLICATION, TRANSFER.
   Each application submitted to the City Council for the granting or
recommending of any license to sell alcoholic liquors and each request for a
transfer to a different location from that for which any such license was
originally granted shall be accompanied by a true copy of the deed, lease or
other proper instrument showing that the applicant is either the owner of the
premises for which the license is sought or to which a transfer is desired, or
is the lessee thereof, to enable the Council to determine applicant's ability
to secure such license under the requirements of Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
(‘79 Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 114.22 LICENSES LIMITED.
   Whenever in the judgment of the City Council the public interest, welfare
and good government of the city demand a limitation of the number of licenses
of any class to sell alcoholic liquors, including beer, which may be issued
within the corporate limits of the city, the number of licenses permitted may
be fixed and determined by the Council by motion or resolution.
(‘79 Code, § 10-104) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 114.23 LIQUOR APPLICATION; CITY EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail, a bottle club license, a craft brewery license, or a microdistillery
license shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify by registered or certified mail the City Clerk. The City Council
shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and report in
writing or in person to the Commission within 45 days. The City Council may
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause
to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony,
and to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the City Council may
authorize its agent, or the City Attorney, to act on their behalf. The City
Council may hold the said examination and hearing upon the receipt from the
Commission of the notice and copy of the application. The City Council shall
fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held, and at which time the
City Council may receive competent evidence under oath, either orally or by
affidavit, from the applicant or any other person concerning the propriety of
the issuance of such license. Notice shall be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city one time not less than seven, nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not
be limited to a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the
local City Council in support of or protest against the issuance of such
license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not
more than 45 days after the receipt of the Commission's letter of notice, and
after such hearing, the City Council shall cause to be read at large in the
minute record of their proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or
refusal of said applicant. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail to the
Commission a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published
notice except that failure to hold a hearing and to examine the said applicant
shall not render void any license issued by the Commission. In the event the
Commission refuses to issue a license, the cost of the publication of notice as
herein required shall be paid by the Commission.
(‘79 Code, § 10-105) (Am. Ord. 471, passed 10-18-88; Am. Ord. 493, passed 2-6-
90; Am. Ord. 546, passed 6-16-92; Am. Ord. 1354, passed 7-2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Application; hearings, Neb. RS 53-131 through 53-134
§ 114.24 LICENSING CONSIDERATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   The City Council shall only consider the following licensing standards
and criteria at the examination hearing held pursuant to §
114.23 and in evaluation of any applicant for a liquor license, renewal of a
license, or expansion or change in the location of the licensed premises, and
for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the city to the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises; potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the City Council’s zoning and land use
policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each license and the
distance between establishments that were issued such licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb, RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-102;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the city, any
other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission, the City Council or the employees of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission in regard to the license application or liquor
investigations. The applicant shall be required to cooperate in providing a
full disclosure to the investigating agents of the City Council;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations and city
ordinances and regulations, and whether or not the applicant has ever forfeited
bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a felony or
charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good
morals and decency, or has been convicted of violating or has forfeited bond to
appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating
to alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSEE.
(‘79 Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 43, passed - -; Am. Ord. 412, passed 5-20-86; Am.
Ord. 494, passed 2-6-90; Am. Ord. 1354, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1469, passed
12-6-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-132
§ 114.25 LICENSE APPLICATION; PERSONAL APPEARANCE.
   It shall be the duty of every applicant for an alcoholic liquor license
whose application is pending before the City Council, as provided by this
chapter, to appear before the City Council personally (if a partnership at
least one of the partners and if a corporation at least one managing officer
thereof) at the time of the hearing upon the propriety of granting or
recommending such license to answer such questions as may be asked in
determining the facts required by law and this chapter concerning the propriety
of granting such license. Failure to appear without reasonable excuse shall be
grounds for denying such application; provided, however, failure to so appear
shall not render the applicant amenable to the penalty provision of this
chapter. Such applicant may at said hearing present evidence, other than his or
her own testimony, in his or her behalf which shall be considered by the City
Council in determining the said facts.
(‘79 Code, § 10-107) (Ord. 43, passed - -; Am. Ord. 474, passed 11-1-88)
§ 114.26 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the City Council to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
city shall file a formal application for a license, and while such application
is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all license privileges
pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires, is canceled or
revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not
more than one year. The City Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, between
January tenth and January thirtieth of each year, shall cause to be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one time, a
notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each
retail liquor and beer license within the city; provided, Class C license
renewal notices shall be published between the dates of July tenth and July
thirtieth of each year. The City Clerk shall then file with the Commission
proof of publication of said notice on or before February tenth of each year or
August tenth of each year for Class C licenses. Upon the conclusion of any
hearing required by this section, the City Council may request a licensee to
submit an application.
(‘79 Code, § 10-108) (Am. Ord. 264, passed 12-4-79)
Statutory reference:
   State license renewal procedures, Neb. RS 53-135 and 53-135.01
§ 114.27 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A liquor license, which the City Council is legally empowered to revoke, may
be either revoked or suspended by the Council whenever it shall find, after
notice and hearing as provided by law, that the holder of any such license has
violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or any
statutory provision or ordinance of the city now existing or hereafter adopted,
enacted in the interest of good morals and decency, or for any one or more of
the following causes:
   (A)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a felony under the laws
of the State of Nebraska or any other state of the United States.
   (B)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to being the proprietor,
manager or agent in charge of a gambling house or of pandering or other crime
or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (C)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquors.
   (D)   That the licensee either swore falsely to any question in his or her
application for said license, has failed to comply with the statements and
representations made in answer to any question or questions in said
application, or has failed to keep any promise, oral or written, made to the
licensee’s request for said license.
   (E)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed shall have forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
one of the violations of laws or ordinances referred to in this section.
   (F)   The licensee, manager or agent shall allow any live person to appear
or have reasonable cause to believe that any live person shall appear in any
licensed premises in a state of nudity to provide entertainment, to provide
service, to act as hostess, manager or owner or to serve as an employee in any
capacity. For the purposes of this division, the term NUDITY shall mean the
showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks, or the
human female breasts, including the nipple or any portion below the nipple with
less than a full opaque covering.
(‘79 Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 43, passed - -; Am. Ord. 499, passed 3-20-90; Am.
Ord. 1469, passed 12-6-22)
§ 114.28 TRANSFERS OF LOCATION OF LICENSES; TRANSFER FEE, APPLICATION,
WITHDRAWAL; FEE RETAINED; NUMBER OF TRANSFERS ALLOWABLE.
   There is hereby imposed a pecuniary charge for the exercise of the privilege
of transferring, after a request in writing to and approval by the City Council
pursuant to Neb. RS 53-129 and after presentation of proof of payment of the
state registration fee prescribed in Neb. RS 53-131, any alcoholic liquor
license, issued pursuant to the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska,
from one location within the city to another location therein which shall be
the sum of $25 for each such transfer, which said sum shall be deposited with
the City Clerk at the time the application for such transfer is made. In event
such transfer is permitted by the City Council, the said sum shall be deposited
with the City Treasurer and credited to the General Fund of the city. In event
the requested change of location is not permitted by the City Council, the said
sum shall be returned by the City Clerk to the person requesting such transfer.
In event that any such applicant for a transfer shall withdraw his or her
application at any time after the same is presented to the Council, the said
sum of $25 shall be retained by the city in the same manner as if a transfer
had been permitted. Only one transfer of any such alcoholic liquor license
shall be allowed or permitted within the period of any one license year.
(‘79 Code, § 10-110) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 114.29 LICENSES FOR PREMISES NOT YET CONSTRUCTED.
   In the event that the premises to be licensed are not yet constructed and
ready for occupancy, the applicant shall submit to the City Council a bona fide
full and complete set of plans and specifications for the construction of the
premises to be licensed, which must be approved by the Council prior to
granting or recommending a license for such premises. The applicant shall
further submit such evidence as to applicant's financial ability to construct
the licensed premises in accordance with said plans and specifications as the
Council shall require. If applicant is a lessee of the premises to be
constructed, such evidence of financial ability shall be required of and
submitted by the owner of said premises. Failure to erect the premises
according to the plans and specifications approved by the Council shall be
cause for revocation of any license granted for same.
(‘79 Code, § 10-111) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
§ 114.30 CATERING LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a retail license issued under Neb. RS 53-124(6), a craft
brewery license, a microdistillery license, a farm winery license, or a
manufacturer’s license issued under Neb, RS 53-123.01(2) may obtain an annual
catering license as prescribed in this section. The catering license shall be
issued for the same period and may be renewed in the same manner as the retail
license, craft brewery license, microdistillery license, farm winery license,
or manufacturer’s license. Any such licensee desiring to obtain a catering
license shall file an application with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(1))
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
114.23.
   (C)   With respect to catering licensees within its corporate limits, the
City Council may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of the
period for which that license is issued. Any person whose catering license is
canceled may appeal to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(4)) (‘79 Code, § 10-134) (Am. Ord. 545, passed 6-16-92; Am.
Ord. 638, passed 12-19-95; Am. Ord. 708, passed 11-18-97; Am. Ord. 1035, passed
5-1-07; Am. Ord. 1354, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 12-6-22)
§ 114.31 SPECIAL DESIGNATED LICENSES.
   Any proposed special designated license within the city, pursuant to an
application to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, shall require approval
of the City Council.
(Ord. 1469, passed 12-6-22)
REGULATIONS
§ 114.40 MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, furnish, give away,
exchange, or deliver, or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic
liquors to or for any minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (‘79 Code, § 10-115) (Am. Ord. 1164, passed 1-17-12) Penalty,
see §
114.99
2023 S-14
36B   La Vista - Business Regulations
§ 114.41 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any goods,
wares, or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the following:
   (A)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members, or bona fide guests of
members, and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance
with the bylaws of such club;
   (B)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
   (C)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine from issuing wine-
tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (‘79 Code, § 10-116) (Am. Ord. 1165, passed 1-17-12) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.42 (RESERVED).
§ 114.43 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (‘79 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.44 MINORS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT OR
ADULT; EXCEPTION.
   No person who holds a license to sell alcoholic liquors by the drink,
including beer, shall allow any minors to be in, frequent or loiter about the
licensed premises unless such minors are accompanied by their parents or legal
guardian; provided however, that in the case where the licensed premises are in
fact a combination cocktail lounge and restaurant and said cocktail lounge
constitutes a separate room or rooms within the licensed premises then the
prohibition provided in this section shall be applicable only to the area
comprising said cocktail lounge.
(‘79 Code, § 10-119) (Ord. 115, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.45 MINOR ATTEMPTING TO PURCHASE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or to
have any person purchase or procure for him or her any alcoholic liquors or
alcoholic beverages, including beer, by the drink or in the original package.
(‘79 Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 43, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.01
§ 114.46 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city except during the hours
provided herein.
   HOURS OF SALE
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
 Secular Days  
  Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
  On Sale    6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 Sundays       
  Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
  On Sale    6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
 Secular Days  
  Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
  On Sale    6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 Sundays       
  Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
  On Sale    6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in the
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption for a period of
time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed herein for stopping the sale
of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(‘79 Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 212, passed - -; Am. Ord. 259, passed 12-4-79; Am.
Ord. 306, passed 5-4-82; Am. Ord. 536, passed 9-3-91; Am. Ord. 1123, passed 6-
1-10; Am. Ord. 1189, passed 2-5-13) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to alter statutory hours, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 114.47 SALE OF BEER; UNLAWFUL FOR “ON SALE” LICENSED PREMISES TO HAVE OTHER
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR ON PREMISES.
   In order to regulate the business of licensees of the sale of beer only for
consumption upon the premises, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership or corporation, having a license to sell beer only for consumption
on the premises, or any agent or servant of any such person, firm, partnership
or corporation, to have, keep, store or possess in any manner whatsoever in any
room or building, or in any place whatsoever upon the premises covered by such
license in the city any alcoholic liquor except beer; provided, nothing herein
shall apply where a license to sell alcoholic liquor other than beer has been
obtained for such premises.
(‘79 Code, § 10-126) (Ord. 43, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.48 NO SALE OF ALCOHOL, FIT FOR BEVERAGE PURPOSES, BY NONBEVERAGE USERS.
   No nonbeverage user shall, within the city, sell, give away or otherwise
dispose of any alcohol, purchased under a license as such nonbeverage user, in
any form fit for beverage purposes.
(Neb. RS 53-187) (‘79 Code, § 10-127) (Ord. 43, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.49 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Building Inspector or the city police
may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be
viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(‘79 Code, § 10-128) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 114.50 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customer.
(‘79 Code, § 10-129) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.51 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire, accept or
possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other than one duly
licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act;
provided, nothing in this section shall prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor and his or her family and guests, as long as:
      (1)   The quantity of alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought or
shipped into the state by such possessor, other than from a holder of retail
direct sales shipping license or its equivalent, does not exceed nine liters in
any one calendar month; and
      (2)   The quantity of alcoholic liquor imported, brought or shipped into
the state by such possessor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, does not exceed 109 liters in anyone calendar year;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment;
   (H)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
   (I)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03) (‘79 Code, § 10-131) (Am. Ord. 405,
passed 11-19-85; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 1354, passed 7-2-19) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.52 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center or with a medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities
or doctor which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat
such individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals. If such
efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place such
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours. The placement
of such person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or
jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or
next of kin, if they can be located, or to such person designated by the person
taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, public property shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or city-owned
property.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, quasi-public property shall mean and
include private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or business
uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (‘79 Code, § 10-133)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Unless a penalty is otherwise provided in applicable state statute or in
another chapter or section of this code with respect to a particular violation,
any person, firm, or entity that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, including but not limited to any neglect or refusal to comply
therewith or opposition to the enforcement thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall upon conviction thereof be subject to: for a first
offense violation, a fine in any amount not in excess of $500 in the discretion
of the court,; and for a second offense violation, a fine in any amount not in
excess of $1,000, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both. Each
day on which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation and
offense hereunder.
(‘79 Code, § 10-132) (Ord. 43, passed - -)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Definitions
   
115.002   Application for franchise
   
115.003   Granting conditions of a certificate of franchise
   
115.004   Duration, renewal, and acceptance of certificate of franchise
   
115.005   Cable system and operations
   
115.006   Work on the cable system
   
115.007   Licenses and permits
   
115.008   Relocation of lines
   
115.009   Protection of structures
   
115.010   Safety precautions; other property
   
115.011   Tree trimming
   
115.012   Maps and plats
   
115.013   Undergrounding of cable system
   
115.014   No liability to franchisee
   
115.015   Governmental programming, capacity, designations, and additional
channels
   
115.016   Governmental programming; use of unused capacity
   
115.017   Rates, fees, and charges
Customer Service
   
115.030   Standard
   
115.031   Selection of service
   
115.032   Billings
   
115.033   Service calls
   
115.034   Disconnection
   
115.035   Information to subscribers
   
115.036   Customer contacts
   
115.037   Service interruptions
   
115.038   Cable information
Compensation to the Franchising Authority
   
115.050   Amounts required
   
115.051   Acceptance of payment not a release of claim; audits and
recomputations
   
115.052   Franchise fees additional to taxes, permit fees, and other charges
Oversight and Regulation
   
115.060   Generally
   
115.061   Books. Records, and files
   
115.062   Inspection and audit
Transfer, Default, and Termination
   
115.070   Transfer of franchise or interest therein
   
115.071   Specific rights and remedies; remedies not exclusive
   
115.072   Performance bond
   
115.073   Franchising authority; occurrence of event of default; breach
procedures
   
115.074   Termination
Insurance and Indemnity
   
115.090   Insurance specifications
   
115.091   Insurance maintenance
   
115.092   Liability not limited
   
115.093   Indemnification of the franchising authority
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
115.100   Controlling authorities
   
115.101   Maintenance of cable system in good working order
   
115.102   Binding effect
   
115.103   No waiver; cumulative remedies
   
115.104   No agency
   
115.105   Governing law
   
115.106   Claims under agreement
   
115.107   Reserved rights
   
115.108   City's right of intervention
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICES. The lowest priced tier of service which includes the
retransmission of local broadcast television signals, including at a minimum
but not limited to all must-carry signals and all PEG channels.
   CABLE ACT. Collectively Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, 47 USC 521 et seq., and the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984,
the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of (i)
video programming or (ii) other programming services, such as digital audio;
and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or use
of such video programming or other programming service, including but not
limited to interactive services, enhanced services, information services, high
speed data services, cable modem services, and internet access and services,
such as an internet service provider.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility of the franchisee,
consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal
generation, reception, and control equipment that is designed to provide cable
service which is provided to multiple subscribers within the franchise area,
but the term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public rights-
of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, except
that such facility shall be considered a cable system (other than for the
purposes of Section 621(c) of the Cable Act) to the extent that the facility is
used in the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless
the extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services;
      (4)   An open video system that complies with Section 653 of the Cable
Act; or
      (5)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
   CERTIFICATE or CERTIFICATE OF FRANCHISE. A certificate of franchise issued
by the city upon a majority vote of the City Council which authorizes the
holder of the certificate to operate and maintain a cable television system
within the franchise area pursuant to the rules and regulations of this
chapter. The holder of the certificate may also be referred to as franchisee or
grantee.
   CITY. The City of La Vista. The words CITY and FRANCHISING AUTHORITY are
synonymous when used in this chapter.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Except to the extent otherwise defined
elsewhere in this chapter, actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of La Vista.
   EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Includes but shall not be limited to any of the following
acts or failures to act by the franchisee:
      (1)   Franchisee's material breach or violation of any of the terms,
covenants, representations, or warranties contained herein or franchisee's
failure to perform any obligation hereunder;
      (2)   The foreclosure or other similar judicial or nonjudicial sale or
transfer of all or any material part of the cable system, except as approved by
the franchising authority;
      (3)   The condemnation by a public authority other than the franchising
authority, or sale dedication under threat or in lieu of condemnation, of all
or any material part of the cable system;
      (4)   The suspension or discontinuance of business by the franchisee;
      (5)   Any denial, forfeiture, or revocation by any federal, state, or
local governmental authority of any authorization required by law or the
expiration without renewal of any such authorization;
      (6)   Franchisee's failure to pay the franchise fee or any amount due
under this chapter;
      (7)   Franchisee's failure to pay any taxes of any kind, including but
not limited to property and income taxes, on or before the due date for the
same, provided, however, that franchisee shall not be in default with respect
to any taxes that have not been paid because they are being disputed in good
faith;
      (8)   The entry of any judgment against franchisee that remains unpaid
for longer than 45 days after entry (and is not stayed pending rehearing or
appeal) which would materially impair franchisee's ability to provide cable
services in the franchise area;
      (9)   Dissolution or termination of the franchisee for any reason; or
      (10)   Franchisee's voluntary or involuntary filing in bankruptcy,
insolvency, transfer for the benefit of creditors, failure to pay debts as they
come due, or any attempt to obtain protection from creditors.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, its designee, or any successor
thereto.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The incorporated limits of the city as constituted from time
to time during a franchise.
   FRANCHISEE. The owner or operator of a cable television system or the
provider of cable services within the city who has been granted a certificate
by the city or anyone who succeeds the holder of a certificate in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. The words FRANCHISEE and GRANTEE are
synonymous when used in this chapter.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. See CITY.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMMING CHANNELS. Those channels designated by the
franchisee to provide governmental programming.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMMING. Such information, data, messages, broadcasts, and
public meetings of the franchising authority and such other political
subdivisions of the state or other governmental unit, or any committee, body,
or agency thereof, and any other civic, public, educational, or governmental
programming, as authorized from time to time by the franchising authority or
its designee.
   GRANTEE. See FRANCHISEE.
   GROSS REVENUE.
      (1)   All revenues received by the franchisee or any affiliate, in
whatever form and from any and all sources, from or in any way related to or
connected with the operation of the cable system to provide cable service.
      (2)   The term GROSS REVENUE shall include compensation received from
advertising to the extent such compensation is considered revenue under
generally accepted accounting principles and shall include but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Subscription and other revenues received on or on account of all
cable services provided over the cable system in the franchise area; and
         (b)   Receipts from sale or leasing of cable service equipment at
retail within the franchise area.
      (3)   The term GROSS REVENUE shall not include:
         (a)   Fees or taxes which are imposed directly or indirectly on any
subscriber by any governmental unit or agency and which are collected by the
franchisee on behalf of such governmental unit or agency (provided, however,
that GROSS REVENUE shall include all amounts directly or indirectly collected
by the franchisee to pay franchise fees under this agreement; and
         (b)   Subscriber bad debt.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. For purposes of FCC rules referred to in this
chapter, with respect to office hours and in-person and live telephone service
at franchisee's local office, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 9
a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturday, unless otherwise agreed by franchisee and
franchising authority. For hours other than specified in the foregoing
sentence, franchisee shall make available a live operator or telephone
answering service 24 hours each day, seven days a week, which shall be the
normal business hours during these times with respect to the telephone service
provided.
   PERSON. Any natural person or any association, firm, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, or other legally recognized entity, whether for-profit or
not-for-profit.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. See STREET, PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY, or RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. See STREET, PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY, or RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   STREET, PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY, or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space
above and below any dedicated public street, highway, freeway, bridge. alley,
court, boulevard, sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle, or
other dedicated public right-of-way in the franchise area, including but not
limited to easements within the franchise area which have been dedicated for
compatible uses, but shall not include any property of the franchising
authority which is not a dedicated public right-of-way, street, highway, or
alley.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person lawfully receiving any cable service by means of or
in connection with the cable system, whether or not a fee is paid for such
cable service.
(Ord. 807 § 10-801, passed 5-16-00; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 1-17-12)
§ 115.002 APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Application for a franchise hereunder shall be in writing, shall be
filed with the City Clerk, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and complete disclosure as to
the ownership of all pecuniary interests in the applicant. If the applicant is
a partnership or a joint venture, the name and address of each partner or joint
venturer shall be set forth. If the applicant is a corporation, the application
shall also state the names and addresses of its directors, officers, and all
stockholders. If the applicant is owned in whole or in part by another
corporation, or by a partnership, joint venturer, or other entity, then a list
of all stockholders, partners, or associates thereof shall also be given.
Persons subscribing for stock or otherwise expressing an intention to purchase
an interest, but who have not yet done so, shall be disclosed in the same
manner.
      (2)   A general statement and description of the system proposed to be
constructed, installed, maintained, or operated by the applicant; the manner in
which applicant proposes to construct, install, maintain, and operate the same;
a statement of the services and channels to be provided initially; a brief
narration of the experience and qualifications of applicant in the installation
and operation of a cable television system; an initial distribution plan of
proposed immediate service within the city; and, particularly, the extent and
manner in which existing or future poles or other facilities or other public
utilities will be used for such system.
      (3)   A statement of proposed rates and charges to subscribers for
installation and services, and a copy of proposed service agreement between the
applicant and its subscribers shall accompany the application.
      (4)   A copy of any contract, if existing, between the applicant and any
public utility providing for the use of facilities of the public utility, such
as poles, lines, or conduits.
      (5)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings,
whether written, oral, or implied, existing between the applicant and any
person, firm, or corporation with respect to the proposed franchise or the
proposed operation. If a franchise is granted to a person, firm, or corporation
posing as a front or as the representative of another person, firm, or
corporation, and such information is not disclosed in the original application,
such franchise shall be void ab initio and of no force and effect whatsoever.
      (6)   A balance sheet of applicant prepared by a certified public
accountant, or person otherwise satisfactory to the Council, showing
applicant's financial status as of a date within six months prior to the date
of the application. The applicant shall also furnish evidence satisfactory to
the city of financial ability to complete the construction and installation of
the proposed Cable System.
      (7)   The Council may at any time demand and applicant shall provide such
supplementary, additional, or other information as the Council may deem
reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested franchise should be
granted.
      (8)   There shall be no requirement for local ownership or investment in
franchise applicant, and no preference shall be given to any applicant by
reason of local ownership or investment in the applicant.
      (9)   A copy of the contract form that applicant intends to have
subscribers execute in connection with the extension of service to their
residences.
      (10)   A statement in affidavit form that no Mayor, City Council member,
or member of any committee created by the city to advise in respect to or
monitor cable television franchises, or any City Administrator, or City
Attorney, or any member of their immediate families, directly or indirectly
owns any pecuniary interest in applicant or in any parent, affiliated, or
subsidiary corporation of applicant or in any entity having a partnership,
joint venture, or other proprietary relationship with applicant.
   (B)   Nothing herein is to be construed to limit the number of applications
which can be filed or the number of franchises which can be granted by the
City.
(Ord. 807 § 10-802, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.003 GRANTING CONDITIONS OF A CERTIFICATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchising authority by issuance of a certificate grant to the
franchisee a nonexclusive franchise which authorizes the franchisee to
construct, install, operate, and maintain a cable system in, along, upon,
across, above, over, or under the public rights-of-way within the franchise
area and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain, or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along
any public rights-of-way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto such
poles, wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as
may be necessary or appurtenant to the cable system, subject to the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   The franchisee shall not originate any programming to provide a news
service on any cable television channel carried on the franchisee's facilities,
unless the franchisee makes available within its channel capacities the equal
opportunity to news service media to carry similar originated programming on a
reasonable contract basis, which shall include consideration of availability of
time and rates for such service in other similar communities. The offering of a
time and/or weather service shall not be deemed or considered as program
origination of news service for the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter or in the granting of any certificate
shall:
         (a)   Abrogate the right of the franchising authority, to perform any
public works or public improvements of any description;
         (b)   Be construed as a waiver of any codes or ordinances of the
franchising authority or of the franchising authority's right to require the
franchisee or any person utilizing the cable system to secure the appropriate
permits or authorizations for such use;
         (c)   Be construed as a waiver or release of the rights of the
franchising authority in and to the streets; or
         (d)   Affect the right of the franchising authority to grant to any
person a franchise, consent, or right to occupy and use the streets, or any
part thereof, for the construction, operation, or maintenance of all or any
part of a cable system within the franchising area or for any other purpose.
      (2)   No grant of a franchise shall establish any priority for the use of
the rights-of-way by the franchisee or by any other current or future
franchisee or permit holder. In the event of any dispute as to priority of use
of the rights-of-way in the franchising area, the priority shall be determined
by the franchising authority in the exercise of its powers, including the
police power and other powers reserved to and conferred on it by the state.
   (D)   A certificate granted under this chapter authorizes the franchisee to
use the rights-of-way of the franchising area for the purpose of providing the
cable services over the cable system. The issuance of a franchise hereunder is
not an agreement, acquiescence, or a waiver of any right, remedy, or defense of
the franchising authority with respect to the use of the rights-of-way for
purposes other than the operation of the cable system to provide cable
services.
(Ord. 807 § 10-803, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.004 DURATION, RENEWAL, AND ACCEPTANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A franchise granted pursuant to a certificate of franchise hereunder
shall take effect and be in force after the certificate of franchise is issued
by the city and shall continue in force and effect for a term determined by the
City Council and Mayor, but in no event longer than 15 years. Subject to
Section 626 of the Cable Act, the franchising authority reserves the right to
grant or deny renewal of a franchise at the end of a term. In the event a
franchisee continues (with permission of the city) to operate all or any part
of the cable system after the term of its franchise, then the franchisee shall
continue to comply with all applicable provisions of the franchise unless
otherwise agreed, including without limitation all compensation and other
payment provisions thereof throughout the period of such continued operation,
provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise.
   (B)   The acceptance of a certificate of franchise by a franchisee will
constitute the unconditional acceptance and promise by the franchisee to comply
with and abide by all of the provisions, terms, and conditions of this chapter
and that the provisions, terms, and conditions of this chapter shall be by
reference incorporated into the certificate of franchise as if fully set out
therein. In addition the franchisee shall file with the City Clerk its
acceptance of the certificate of franchise and its promise to abide by the
provisions, terms, and conditions of this chapter in writing duly executed and
sworn to by or on behalf of the franchisee before a notary public or other
officer authorized by law to administer oaths. Should the franchisee fail to
file the written acceptance and promise as above described it shall acquire no
rights, privileges, or authority under the certificate of franchise.
(Ord. 807 § 10-804, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.005 CABLE SYSTEM AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   A franchisee shall construct, operate, maintain, and upgrade the cable
system as provided in this chapter. The franchisee shall make cable service
available to every person requesting the same at any location within the
franchise area, and no charge shall be imposed on any current or potential
subscriber in the franchise area for extending cable service to the requestor's
location so long as the requestor is within one mile of the franchisee's trunk
or distribution cable and there are at least five residential units within a
radius of 500 feet of the requestor's location. In the event a person
requesting cable service is beyond the area set forth in the previous sentence,
the franchisee shall pay the costs of extending the cable system the first
1,000 feet from the point of the franchisee's trunk or distribution cable
nearest the requestor's location, and the requestor may obtain service by
paying the construction costs to extend the cable system the remainder of the
distance to the requestor's location. In any new subdivision or development in
the franchise area, the franchisee shall extend or install the cable system no
later than the date on which electric or telephone utilities are installed such
that the franchisee need only install drops in a dwelling in order to provide
cable service in the subdivision or development.
   (B)   Throughout the term of a franchise, the franchisee shall operate and
maintain the cable system in accordance with the testing procedures and the
technical performance standards of the FCC in effect from time to time and
shall provide to the franchising authority upon request a written report of the
results of any testing of the cable system or cable services. Franchisee shall
at all times maintain a skilled workforce and inventory of parts that are
necessary for the erection, construction, operation, maintenance, and repair of
the cable system, and franchisee's performance of any other obligation from
time to time under this chapter.
   (C)   Franchisee shall install and maintain an emergency alert system that
meets all requirements of federal law. Upon the request of a subscriber, the
franchisee shall make available a device by which the subscriber can block
completely the video and audio signals of a particular cable service during
periods selected by that subscriber.
(Ord. 807 § 10-805, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.006 WORK ON THE CABLE SYSTEM.
   (A)   All work involved in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, or removal of the cable system shall be performed in a safe, thorough,
reliable, good, and workmanlike manner, applying high standards of engineering
and workmanship, and using materials of good and durable quality, and shall
meet or exceed:
      (1)   All applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules, regulations,
ordinances, orders, or codes;
      (2)   Safety or industry codes applicable to the work performance or
governing those persons performing the work; and
      (3)   Requirements of any utility whose poles or conduits are used for
the cable system or any part thereof.
   (B)   If, at any time, it is reasonably determined by the franchising
authority or any other agency or authority of competent jurisdiction that any
part of the cable system, including without limitation any means used to
distribute signals over or within the cable system, is harmful to the health or
safety of any person, then the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense,
promptly correct all such conditions.
(Ord. 807 § 10-806, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.007 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The franchisee shall obtain all permits, licenses, or other forms of
approval or authorization necessary to construct, operate, maintain, repair, or
upgrade the cable system, or any part thereof, and shall comply with any other
code or ordinance of the franchising authority, as amended from time to time,
and obtain any other approval or permission, as required from time to time, for
the franchisee to perform hereunder, including but not limited to obtaining any
permit that is required prior to use of rights-of-way or commencement of
construction. Franchisee shall be subject to all laws, rules, regulations, and
orders regarding private property when performing under this chapter.
Franchisee shall comply with all applicable zoning or land use ordinances,
restrictions, or regulations as may exist from time to time.
(Ord. 807 § 10-807, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.008 RELOCATION OF LINES.
   (A)   If the grades of lines of any street or public right-of-way within the
franchise area are changed at any time during the term of a franchise, then the
franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, upon the request of the
franchising authority after reasonable prior notice to the franchisee, protect
or promptly alter or relocate the cable system, or any part thereof, as
directed by the franchising authority, so as to conform with such new grades or
lines. In addition to but not in limitation of the foregoing, the franchisee
shall protect, support, disconnect, or remove from the right-of-way any portion
of the cable system when required to do so by the franchising authority due to
any excavation, construction, repair, maintenance, grading, regrading,
installation, vacation, or relocation of any streets, sewers, pipes, or other
public facilities, structures, improvements, or work. Furthermore, if a street
where the franchisee has lines or other facilities is vacated, eliminated, or
closed, the franchisee's rights under this chapter with respect to the street
shall terminate upon 30 days notice, and the franchisee shall remove the cable
system from the former street unless it obtains easements from property owners
permitting the cable system to remain, provided, however, that the franchising
authority may reserve easements for the cable system to use the former street
to the extent reserved for other utilities. The franchisee shall pay the entire
cost and expense of any removal, movement, relocation, installation, or
reinstallation of any lines or other facilities hereunder unless it is for the
benefit of a private party, in which case the franchisee may charge the private
party for actual costs and expenses.
   (B)   The franchisee shall, upon at least 30 days prior written notice (or
such other notice period as agreed to by the parties) to franchisee by the
franchising authority of any person holding a permit (including a permit to
move a structure) temporarily to move its wires or other equipment. The
franchisee may impose a reasonable charge on any person (other than the
franchising authority) for any such movement of its wires or equipment and may
require payment in advance, provided, however, that the amount charged by
franchisee shall not be greater than the franchisee's actual direct costs to
carry out the move.
   (C)   The franchising authority may, in case of fire, disaster, or other
emergency situations, as reasonably determined by the franchising authority,
cut or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of
the cable system, in which event the franchising authority shall not incur any
liability to the franchisee. When possible, the franchisee shall be consulted
prior to any such cutting or movement of its wires and be given the opportunity
to perform such work itself. All costs to repair or replace such wires, cables,
amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the cable system shall be borne by
the franchisee.
(Ord. 807 § 10-808, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.009 PROTECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   In connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, or removal of a cable system, the franchisee shall, at its own cost
and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the
franchising authority and all designated landmarks. The franchisee shall obtain
the prior approval of the franchising authority before altering any water main,
sewerage or drainage system, or any other municipal or public utility
structure, improvement, or property. Any such alteration shall be made by the
franchisee, at its sole cost and expense, and in a manner prescribed by the
franchising authority. The franchisee agrees that it shall be liable, at its
own cost and expense, to replace or repair and restore, in a manner as may be
specified by the franchising authority, any street or other municipal or public
utility structure, improvement, or property that may be disturbed, damaged, or
destroyed as a result of any work hereunder or any act, omission, or negligence
of franchisee or its designee to as good or better condition as existed
immediately before the disturbance, damage, or destruction and to maintain said
condition for one year thereafter. Failure of franchisee to effectuate such
replacement, repair, or restoration within 48 hours shall authorize the city to
cause the proper replacement, repair, or restoration to be made, with the cost
thereof to be paid by franchisee upon demand by the city. Franchisee shall
erect, install, construct, repair, replace, and maintain the cable system and
otherwise carry out its duties under this chapter in a manner that minimizes
interference with use of the rights-of-way and the property, inhabitants, and
activities in the franchise area and does not unduly burden the present or
future use of the rights-of-way. If the franchising authority determines that
any portion of the cable system constitutes an undue influence or burden, the
franchisee shall at its sole cost and expense modify the cable system or take
such other action as the franchising authority determines to remove, eliminate,
or alleviate the influence or burden within the period specified by the
franchising authority.
(Ord. 807 § 10-809, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.010 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS; OTHER PROPERTY.
   The franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense, undertake all necessary
and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its work sites, including the
placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences, barricades, watchmen, and
suitable and sufficient lighting. Before entering or performing work on any
municipal or private property in the franchising area, franchisee shall obtain
the written permission of the property owner. In addition, franchisee shall at
its sole cost and expense immediately restore and replace any real or personal
property that is disturbed, damaged, or destroyed as a result of any work
hereunder or act, omission, or negligence of franchisee or its designee to as
good or better condition as such property was in immediately before the
disturbance, damage, or destruction and shall maintain said condition for one
year thereafter. Failure of franchisee to effectuate such replacement, repair,
or restoration within 48 hours shall authorize the city to cause the proper
replacement, repair, or restoration to be made, with the cost thereof to be
paid by franchisee upon demand by the city.
(Ord. 807 § 10-810, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.011 TREE TRIMMING.
   Franchisee shall have the authority to trim trees to prevent damage to the
cable system, provided, however, that any trimming shall be performed in
accordance with governing ordinances and codes, as amended from time to time
and, except in the event of an emergency, subject to the prior written approval
of the owner of the property on which the trees are located.
(Ord. 807 § 10-811, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.012 MAPS AND PLATS.
   The franchisee shall make available for inspection by the franchising
authority true and accurate maps or plats of all existing and proposed
installations and update the same at reasonable intervals so that the
franchising authority will at times have access to a current set of such maps
and plats. The franchising authority shall provide upon request from the
franchisee the boundaries from time to time of the franchise area.
(Ord. 807 § 10-812, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.013 UNDERGROUNDING OF CABLE SYSTEM.
   For any cable system expansion, the franchisee shall place the cable system
lines and equipment underground in localities where both telephone and power
lines are underground. For existing facilities (or any other aerial facilities
under this chapter), the franchisee shall replace aerial facilities with
underground facilities if and when other utilities are required by the
franchising authority to place facilities underground. At no time shall the
cable system be the only aerial facility. Where underground is required, the
franchising authority shall determine whether utility trenches shall be shared.
Franchisee shall place active components, including pedestals and power
supplies, underground in areas where similar components of telecommunications
providers or other cable providers are required to be underground.
(Ord. 807 § 10-813, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.014 NO LIABILITY TO FRANCHISEE.
   Neither the franchising authority nor its officers, officials, employees,
agents, attorneys, consultants, or independent contractors shall have any
liability to the franchisee as a result of or in connection with the
protection, movement, removal, alteration, or relocation of any part of the
cable system by or on behalf of the franchisee or the franchising authority in
connection with any emergency, public work, public improvement, alteration of
any municipal structure, or any change in the grade or line of any street, as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 807 § 10-814, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.015 GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMMING, CAPACITY, DESIGNATIONS, AND ADDITIONAL
CHANNELS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall designate channel capacity on the basic service
tier for governmental programming to be provided by the franchising authority
or its designee (which programming may be provided pursuant to an interlocal
cooperation agreement in conjunction with one or more of Ralston, Papillion, or
Bellevue, or a board or committee of representatives authorized by said
municipalities and the franchising authority). The franchisee shall initially
designate two channels for governmental programming. Except as otherwise
provided by law, the channels and any programming thereon shall be under the
exclusive management and control of the franchising authority or its designee
and shall be used solely for governmental programming.
   (B)   The franchisee shall have sole discretion to make channel number
assignments for governmental programming channels. In the event the franchisee
is required by federal law or regulations to change the channel number of a
governmental programming channel, the franchisee shall provide 30 days advance
notice to the franchising authority and its subscribers. Should franchisee
decide to change the channel number for any other reason, the franchisee shall
notify the franchising authority of such change and the reason for the change
at least 30 days prior to the proposed change.
   (C)   The franchisee shall make available up to one additional governmental
programming channel to the franchising authority under such circumstances and
on such terms and conditions as specified by the franchising authority. The
maximum number of governmental programming channels which may be required of a
franchisee under this chapter shall be three.
(Ord. 807 § 10-815, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.016 GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMMING; USE OF UNUSED CAPACITY.
   Whenever any governmental programming channel is programmed for less than
eight hours per day, six days per week, for a continuous period of not less
than 26 consecutive weeks, the franchising authority may permit the franchisee
to utilize unused channel capacity on that channel, subject to such rules and
procedures as specified by franchising authority from time to time. Any request
from the franchisee to use any fallow capacity designated for a governmental
programming channel must be submitted in writing to the franchising authority
for approval. After approval, the franchisee may continue to utilize the unused
capacity of the channel for any other purposes it so chooses, consistent with
the franchise, until the franchising authority determines that all or a part of
such channel capacity is needed for governmental programming. The franchisee
shall relinquish use of the channel back to the franchising authority. This
provision shall not be construed to require the franchising authority to
rearrange or reschedule any programming upon said channel.
(Ord. 807 § 10-816, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.017 RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The franchising authority reserves the right to regulate the
franchisee, the cable system, and the rates, fees, charges, deposits, and
associated terms and conditions for cable service (or for related equipment or
services such as equipment rental, deposits, and downgrade fees) provided
pursuant to this chapter to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, as
amended from time to time, and the franchising authority may, in connection
with any such regulation, establish rules and regulations from time to time to
the extent permitted by such applicable law. In connection with such
regulation, the franchising authority shall comply with FCC rules as amended
from time to time and provide the public with an opportunity to comment.
   (B)   (1)   The franchisee shall not discriminate between or among any
residential subscribers in the rates, terms, and conditions for any cable
service, provided that the foregoing requirement shall not prevent (to the
extent otherwise permitted by applicable law) the use of:
         (a)   Short-term sales promotions and other short-term discounts or
reduced charges;
         (b)   Reasonable discounts or reduced charges to senior citizens or
economically disadvantaged groups; or
         (c)   Bulk rate arrangements.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
franchisee from individually negotiating the rates, terms, and conditions of
cable service provided to nonresidential customers. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, franchisee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate on rates or any other terms or conditions of cable services (or
any related service provided by franchisee) on the basis of race, color, creed,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, disability, age, familial status,
marital status, income level, demographics, status with regard to public
assistance, or location within the franchise area.
   (C)   Before any new or modified rate, fee, charge, deposit, or associated
term or condition for cable service may be imposed, the franchisee must provide
notice to the franchising authority of the change and notify affected
subscribers. Submission of a franchisee rate card which reflects alt current
rates, fees, charges, deposits, and associated terms and conditions will
satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (D)   In the event that:
      (1)   The franchisee offers one or more cable, internet-related,
telecommunications, or any other (cable or non-cable) service on a bundled
basis (such that more than one service is provided at a single, combined,
discounted or special fee);
      (2)   At least one of such bundled services is a cable service under this
agreement; and
      (3)   Revenues received by franchisee on at least one service provided in
the bundled arrangement is not subject to any fee or tax to the franchising,
authority or is subject to a different rate of fee or tax to the franchising
authority than is provided for under this chapter on cable services, then any
discount of fees or charges of franchisee to subscribers or customers obtaining
bundled services shall be applied either proportionately to the fee of each
service provided under the arrangement, such that it is not applied
disproportionately to cable services provided under this chapter, or equally to
all services included in the bundle, as agreed in writing between the
franchisee and the city.
(Ord. 807 § 10-817, passed 5-16-00; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 1-17-12)
CUSTOMER SERVICE
§ 115.030 STANDARD.
   Franchisee shall comply with the more stringent of the customer service and
protection standards: set forth in this chapter, adopted from time to time by
franchisee, from time to time adopted by the FCC, or from time to time adopted
by the National Cable Television Association or such other association of cable
service providers from time to time setting such standards. To the extent
permitted under federal law, franchising authority reserves the right to amend
or revise the standards referred to herein from time to time.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.1, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.031 SELECTION OF SERVICE.
   Franchisee shall only charge subscribers for cable services that subscribers
affirmatively request and shall not engage in “negative option” marketing or
charge a subscriber for any service or equipment which the subscriber has not
affirmatively requested.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.2, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.032 BILLINGS.
   Billings for Cable Services shall state in a conspicuous and understandable
manner the amount of the bill, the date that payment is due, the date after
which charges for late payment will be assessed, and the amount of any charges
for late payment. Franchisee shall not assess any charges for late payment
earlier than 21 days after a bill is mailed to a subscriber. Charges for late
payment shall be no greater than an amount needed to reimburse the franchisee
for additional costs incurred because of the subscriber's delay in payment and,
in any event, shall not exceed $1 unless otherwise authorized by the
franchising authority.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.3, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.033 SERVICE CALLS.
   Franchisee shall require any person providing services in the community for
or on behalf of franchisee to wear a uniform with a clearly visible franchisee
logo and identification badge bearing the name and picture of the person
wearing the same. Franchisee shall account for all identification badges and
uniforms at all times. Franchisee vehicles used for service calls shall be
clearly marked with a visible franchisee logo. Franchisee shall not charge any
subscriber for any service call unless it is established that the required
service is a result of negligence of or malicious destruction of cable
equipment by the subscriber or a problem that did not originate with the cable
system.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.4, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.034 DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Franchisee shall promptly disconnect cable service upon and, as of the
effective date specified in, a request of any subscriber. If no effective date
is specified in a request, service shall terminate effective the day following
the day the request is received by the franchisee. Franchisee shall not charge
for any cable services after the effective date of termination of service.
   (B)   Franchisee may disconnect cable services to a subscriber:
      (1)   Forty-five days after payment is due so long as franchisee provides
at least ten days advance written notice to the subscriber specifying the date
that service will terminate (except cable service shall not be disconnected in
the event nonpayment is due to a bona fide dispute regarding the subscriber's
bill); or
      (2)   At any time that the franchisee reasonably and in good faith
determines that the subscriber tampered with or abused the franchisee's
equipment or the cable system or is stealing cable services, or determines that
wiring on the premises (not provided by franchisee) violates FCC standards.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.5, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.035 INFORMATION TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   Franchisee shall provide to subscribers upon request or installation of
cable services, and in any event at least annually, a written description in
easily understandable language of cable services (and any related services)
offered, all rates, prices, fees, and charges for or in any way related to
cable services, installation and maintenance policies and procedures,
instructions on the use of cable services, billing and complaint procedures,
and the designation of programming to channels.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.6, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.036 CUSTOMER CONTACTS.
   Franchisee shall maintain within a seven-mile radius of city hall of the
franchising authority (or at such other location as agreed to by the
franchising authority and franchisee) a local office serving the franchising
area, for the purposes of receiving payment of bills, receiving and responding
to service requests, receiving and resolving subscriber complaints and similar
matters. Franchisee also shall maintain a local toll-free telephone service for
responding to subscribers. The office shall be open to the public and the
telephone service available during normal business hours. Franchisee shall
maintain for a period of three years a record of each subscriber complaint,
response thereto, and resolution thereof which shall be available for
inspection by the franchising authority at the franchisee's local office during
normal business hours. In addition, upon request by the franchising authority,
franchisee shall provide reports of customer service performance, including the
number of telephone calls received and franchisee's resolution of the same, to
the extent permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.7, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.037 SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   Franchisee shall interrupt cable service only for good cause, unless
otherwise permitted under applicable law. Franchisee shall minimize the scope,
degree, and duration of any interruption. In the event of any foreseeable
interruption of cable service, franchisee shall give the franchising authority
advance written notice of the same, except in the event the interruption is
pursuant to a test required by the FCC. Franchisee shall credit subscribers pro
rata for any cable services not received during an interruption. To minimize
any service interruptions due to loss of electric power, franchisee shall
maintain a backup power source sufficient to operate the cable system for up to
four hours if there is a loss of conventional electric power.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.8, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.038 CABLE INFORMATION.
   Franchisee shall not create, record, or retain any information regarding the
programming selected by any subscriber nor shall franchisee sell, distribute,
provide, or make available to any person (other than to franchising authority
pursuant to applicable law or its role as franchiser) any information about or
related to any subscriber without the subscriber's prior written authorization,
except for such disclosure as necessary to carry out its franchise, to provide
cable services, or detect unauthorized reception of any cable services.
(Ord. 807 § 10-818.9, passed 5-16-00)
COMPENSATION TO THE FRANCHISING AUTHORITY
§ 115.050 AMOUNTS REQUIRED.
   As compensation for the use of the public rights-of-way, the franchisee
shall pay to the franchising authority the amounts set forth herein. The
franchisee shall pay to the franchising authority a franchise fee equal to 5%
of Gross Revenue. The 5% franchise fee includes compensation for right-of-way
use by the franchisee. All such payments of franchise fees shall be made on a
quarterly basis, not later than 45 days after the last day of each calendar
quarter and shall be remitted simultaneously with a report setting forth the
gross revenue for the period ending on the last day. Any amount not paid when
due hereunder shall accrue interest at the rate of 10% per annum, compounded
monthly.
(Ord. 807 § 10-819, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.051 ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT NOT A RELEASE OF CLAIM; AUDITS AND
RECOMPUTATIONS.
   No acceptance of any franchise fee payment by the franchising authority
shall be construed as an accord and satisfaction that the amount paid is in
fact the correct amount or a release of any claim that the franchising
authority may have for further or additional sums payable or any other claim
under this chapter, and all amounts paid shall be subject to audit and
recomputation by the franchising authority. If an audit and recomputation
reveals that franchise fees for any quarter were underpaid by greater than 10%
, then franchisee shall pay the cost of such audit and recomputation.
(Ord. 807 § 10-819, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.052 FRANCHISE FEES ADDITIONAL TO TAXES, PERMIT FEES, AND OTHER CHARGES.
   The franchise fees provided for hereunder are in addition to any other
amounts that may be due the franchising authority by franchisee from time to
time, including but not limited to taxes and permit fees. Franchisee shall pay
within 60 days of the effective date of a franchise all franchise fees
remaining under any prior franchise between franchisee and franchising
authority.
(Ord. 807 § 10-819, passed 5-16-00)
OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION
§ 115.060 GENERALLY.
   The franchising authority shall have the right to oversee, regulate, and
periodically inspect the construction, operation, maintenance, and upgrade of
the cable system and all parts thereof as necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. Franchisee shall perform its obligations under
this chapter and shall not directly or indirectly contract, assign, or
subcontract any obligation or performance in whole or in part to any other
Person. At the request of the franchising authority, the franchisee shall
promptly submit to the franchising authority such reasonable information as the
franchising authority may request regarding the Franchisee's compliance with
any term or condition of this chapter.
(Ord. 807 § 10-820.1, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.061 BOOKS. RECORDS, AND FILES.
   Throughout the term of a franchise hereunder, the franchisee shall maintain
in the franchise area or make available in the franchise area within 30
business days complete and accurate books of account and records regarding the
Franchisee's ownership and operation of the cable system and the provision of
cable service over the cable system, including without limitation books of
account and records adequate to enable the franchising authority to determine
whether the franchisee is and throughout the term of the franchise has been in
compliance with this chapter. All such documents pertaining to the financial
matters which may be the subject of an audit by the franchising authority shall
be retained by the franchisee for a minimum of three years. In addition, the
franchisee shall at all times during the franchise maintain in a file available
for public inspection during normal business hours in the franchising area
those documents required pursuant to the FCC's rules and regulations.
(Ord. 807 § 10-820.2, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.062 INSPECTION AND AUDIT.
   (A)   Upon reasonable prior notice to the franchisee and during normal
business hours, the franchising authority or its designated representatives
shall have the right to examine, in the franchise area, all books and records
pertaining to the franchisee's performance under the terms of the franchise and
any other aspect of the cable system, including facilities and equipment
thereof, as necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by law, the franchising authority also may
conduct compliance audits and hold public hearings at any time during the term
of a franchise, provided that it gives the franchisee written notice 30
business days in advance of the commencement of any such audit, and written
notice of the time and place of such public hearing ten business days in
advance of such hearing, and provided further that the franchisee shall be
given an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 807 § 10-820.3, passed 5-16-00)
TRANSFER, DEFAULT, AND TERMINATION
§ 115.070 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE OR INTEREST THEREIN.
   (A)   Franchisee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, encumber,
pledge, deed, grant, mortgage, or dispose of, in whole or in part, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, by forced or involuntary sale or transfer, or by
ordinary or voluntary sale, transfer, consolidation, or otherwise, a franchise
granted under this chapter and/or cable system or any right, title, or interest
therein, or rights or privileges granted by the franchise (“Transfer”), without
the prior consent of the City Council. Any attempt to transfer the franchise
and/or cable system without the consent of the City Council shall be null and
void. This provision shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in the
normal course of business. No consent from the City shall be required for a
transfer in trust, mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation, in whole or
in part, to secure an indebtedness.
   (B)   (1)   The following events shall be deemed to be a transfer of the
franchise and/or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of
franchisee's assets;
         (b)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership, or other equity interest in franchisee or its parent
by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners, members, or other equity
owners so as to create a new controlling interest in franchisee or its parent;
         (c)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership, or other equity interest by franchisee or its parent so as to
create a new controlling interest in franchisee or its parent; and
         (d)   The entry by franchisee into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of the franchisee and/or the system or service.
      (2)   The term CONTROLLING INTEREST as used herein means majority equity
ownership.
   (C)   Franchisee shall notify franchising authority in writing upon learning
of any pending or proposed foreclosure or other judicial, trustee, or other
sale of all or a substantial part of the franchise property of the franchisee
or upon the termination of any lease or interest covering all or a substantial
part of said franchise property. Such notification shall be considered by
franchising authority as notice that a transfer of the franchise has taken
place and the provisions under this section governing the consent of
franchising authority to such change in control of ownership shall apply.
   (D)   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such
change, transfer, or acquisition of control, franchising authority may inquire
into the legal, technical, and financial qualifications of the prospective
transferee or controlling party and obtain any other information or make any
other inquiry as the franchising authority deems necessary or appropriate, and
franchisee shall assist franchising authority in any such inquiry. In seeking
franchising authority's consent to any transfer, franchisee shall have the
responsibility of insuring that the transferee completes an application in form
of FCC Form 394 (or its successor). The application shall be submitted to
franchising authority not less than 90 days prior to the date of transfer. The
transferee shall be required to establish that it possesses the legal,
technical, and financial qualifications to operate and maintain the system and
comply with all franchise requirements for the remainder of the term of the
franchise. If, after considering the legal, financial, and technical qualities
of the applicant and determining that they are satisfactory, the franchising
authority finds that such transfer is acceptable, the franchising authority
shall transfer and assign the rights and obligations of the franchise, subject
to this chapter and such other terms or conditions specified by the franchising
authority.
   (E)   Any financial institution having a pledge of the franchisee or its
assets for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of
the franchise shall have the right to notify the franchising authority that it
or its designee satisfactory to the franchising authority shall take control of
and operate the cable television system, in the event of a franchisee default
in its financial obligations, subject to approval of franchising authority.
Further, the financial institution shall also submit a plan for such operation
within 30 days of assuming such control that will insure continued service and
compliance with all franchise requirements during the term the financial
institution exercises control over the system. The financial institution shall
not exercise control over the system for a period exceeding one year unless
extended by the franchising authority in its discretion, and during that period
of time it shall have the right to petition the franchising authority to
transfer the franchise to another franchisee. Franchisee shall pay or reimburse
costs of the franchising authority to analyze, consider, or make a decision
regarding any proposed transfer.
(Ord. 807 § 10-821, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.071 SPECIFIC RIGHTS AND REMEDIES; REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   With respect to any franchisee or franchise, the franchising authority shall
have the specific rights and remedies set forth herein. These rights and
remedies are in addition to any and all other rights or remedies, now or
hereafter available to the franchising authority to enforce the provisions of
this chapter or any franchise and will not be deemed waived by the exercise of
any other right or remedy. The exercise of any such right or remedy by the
franchising authority shall not release the franchisee from its obligations or
any liability under this chapter or a franchise, except as expressly provided
for herein or as necessary to avoid duplicative recovery from or payments by
the franchisee.
(Ord. 807 § 10-822, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.072 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of a franchise, the franchisee
shall deposit with the clerk of the franchising authority a performance bond
from a surety authorized to do business in the state and acceptable to the
franchising authority in the minimum amount of $100,000, and the performance
bond shall be maintained at the minimum amount of $100,000 during the entire
term of a franchise hereunder, even if amounts have to be withdrawn pursuant to
this section. The form and content of such performance bond shall be subject to
the approval of the franchising authority and shall contain a provision that
the issuer of such performance bond can rely absolutely on the demand of the
franchising authority upon said performance bond. The performance bond shall be
used to ensure the faithful performance by franchisee of all provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including payment of franchise fees; compliance with
all orders, permits, and directions of any agency, commission, board,
department, division, or office of the franchising authority having
jurisdiction over its acts or defaults; and the payment by franchisee of any
claims, liens, and taxes due the franchising authority which arise by reason of
the construction, operation, or maintenance of the cable system. In the
alternative and under the same provisions as above, franchisee may furnish a
letter of credit in the required amount, in form and content (and issued by a
financial institution authorized to do business in the state) acceptable to the
franchising authority.
   (B)   If franchisee fails to pay the franchising authority any amount within
the time fixed herein, or fails to pay to the franchising authority any taxes
due and unpaid, or fails to pay or repay the franchising authority within ten
days any damages, costs, or expenses which the franchising authority is
compelled to pay by reason of the acts or default of franchisee in connection
with the franchise, or fails after receipt of 30 days' written notice of the
failure by the franchising authority to comply with any provision of this
franchise which the franchising authority reasonably determines can be remedied
by an expenditure of money, the franchising authority may demand and receive
payment of the amount thereof, with interest, under the performance bond. Upon
such demand for payment, the franchising authority shall notify franchisee of
the amount and date thereof.
   (C)   Any performance bond hereunder shall contain the following
endorsement: “It is hereby understood and agreed that this performance bond may
not be canceled by the issuer hereof nor the intention not to renew be stated
by the issuer hereof until 30 days after receipt by the franchising authority,
City of La Vista, Nebraska, by registered mail of a written notice of such
intention to cancel or not to renew.”
(Ord. 807 § 10-823, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.073 FRANCHISING AUTHORITY; OCCURRENCE OF EVENT OF DEFAULT; BREACH
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the franchising
authority may take one or more of the following actions (in addition to and not
in limitation of any other action, right, or remedy available at law or
equity):
      (1)   Require the franchisee to take such actions as the franchising
authority deems reasonably appropriate to cure such event of default;
      (2)   Seek money damages from the franchisee as compensation for such
event of default;
      (3)   Seek to obtain the appointment of a court-appointed trustee or
similar person to take any actions which the franchising authority deems
appropriate in the circumstances;
      (4)   Terminate the franchise, in which case the franchise shall be
forfeited; or
      (5)   Commencement of an action at law for monetary damages or in equity
for injunctive relief or specific performance.
(Ord. 807 § 10-824, passed 5-16-00)
   (B)   Breach procedures. The franchising authority shall exercise the rights
provided in division (A) of this section in accordance with the following
procedures. The franchising authority shall notify the franchisee, in writing,
of an event of default, which notice shall specify the alleged event of default
with reasonable particularity. If the event of default is due to failure of the
franchisee to pay money to franchising authority, franchisee shall cure the
default by paying the full amount due with interest within 30 days after the
date notice is given. For an event of default which cannot be cured by the
payment of money to franchising authority, franchisee shall have 60 days after
notice is given to cure the event of default.
(Ord. 807 § 10-825, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.074 TERMINATION.
   (A)   In the event of a termination of a franchise, whether by expiration,
revocation, or otherwise, the franchising authority may:
      (1)   Direct the franchisee to cooperate with the franchising authority
or third party in maintaining continuity in the distribution of cable service
to subscribers over the cable system for a period of up to three months; or
      (2)   Order the franchisee to cease all construction and operational
activities in a prompt and workmanlike manner.
   (B)   In addition, the franchisee shall remove the cable system from the
franchise area as and when specified by the franchising authority, and the
franchising authority shall retain any franchise fees or other fees or payments
already paid, and franchisee shall immediately pay all other amounts that are
due and payable, upon the termination date.
(Ord. 807 § 10-826, passed 5-16-00)
INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY
§ 115.090 INSURANCE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Throughout the term of a franchise granted hereunder and during the
removal of the cable system, the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense,
maintain a comprehensive liability insurance policy or policies that are in a
form and content acceptable to the franchising authority, together with
evidence acceptable to the franchising authority demonstrating that the
premiums for the policy or policies have been paid. Such policy or policies
shall be issued by companies duly licensed to do business in the state and
acceptable to the franchising authority. Such policy or policies shall insure
the franchisee and the franchising authority and its officers, boards,
commissions, councils, elected officials, agents, and employees (through
appropriate endorsements if necessary) against each and every form of liability
of the franchisee or franchising authority referred to in, or arising out of,
or resulting from the franchise in the minimum combined amount of $5,000,000
for all claims arising out of a single occurrence and $1,000,000 for any person
for any number of claims arising out of a single occurrence.
   (B)   The Franchisee shall comply with the Nebraska Workers' Compensation
Act and in that regard shall during the franchise and removal of the cable
system secure insurance from an insurer licensed in the state and acceptable to
the franchising authority to cover its obligations with respect to workers'
compensation claims, or take other appropriate steps, which insurance and steps
shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the franchising authority. The
franchisee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the franchising authority
and its officers, boards, commissions, councils, officials, agents, and
employees from any workers' compensation claims to which the franchisee may
become subject during the term of the franchise or removal of the cable system.
   (C)   The franchisee shall at all times during the franchise and the removal
of the cable system also maintain the following types of insurance, written by
an insurer licensed in the state and acceptable to the franchising authority
(and in form and content acceptable to the franchising authority) to indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless franchising authority and its officers, boards,
commissions, councils, officials, agents, and employees from and against the
specified risks in the following amounts: $1,000,000 per person, $5,000,000 per
occurrence property damage insurance; and $1,000,000 per person, $5,000,000 per
occurrence comprehensive automobile liability insurance. Finally, franchisee's
professional liability (broadcaster liability) policy shall include the city as
an additional named insured.
   (D)   Any additional or increased coverage may be required by the
franchising authority upon such terms as agreed to with the franchisee.
(Ord. 807 § 10-827.1, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.091 INSURANCE MAINTENANCE.
   The insurance policies required hereunder shall be maintained by the
franchisee throughout the term of the franchise and such other period of time
during which the franchisee operates or is engaged in the removal of the cable
system. Each such policy shall contain the following endorsement: “It is hereby
understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled, the amount or
extent of coverage decreased, nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30
days after receipt by the franchising authority, by registered mail, of a
written notice of such intent to cancel, decrease coverage, or not to renew.”
Within 30 days after receipt by the franchising authority of such notice, the
franchisee shall obtain and furnish to the franchising authority replacement
insurance policies in a form reasonably acceptable to the franchising
authority. The franchising authority and each of the parties for which
insurance protection is to be provided by franchisee under this chapter shall
be designated in the governing policies as additional named insureds. Within 30
days after the effective date of a franchise, and at such other times as
requested by franchising authority, franchisee shall provide franchising
authority with certificates of insurance evidencing the coverages in effect.
Failure to maintain the insurance required by this chapter shall be a material
breach of the franchise.
(Ord. 807 § 10-827.2, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.092 LIABILITY NOT LIMITED.
   The legal liability of the franchisee to the franchising authority and any
person for any of the matters which are the subject of the liability insurance
policies required by this chapter, including without limitation the
franchisee's indemnification obligations set forth herein shall not be limited
by such insurance policies nor by the recovery of any amounts thereunder,
except to the extent necessary to avoid duplicative recovery from or payment by
the franchisee.
(Ord. 807 § 10-827.3, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.093 INDEMNIFICATION OF THE FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.
   Franchisee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the franchising
authority, its officers, officials, employees, agents, attorneys, consultants,
boards, commissions, representatives, and independent contractors from and
against any and all liabilities, costs, claims, damages, penalties, charges,
losses, or expenses of any kind (including without limitation attorneys' fees
and court costs) in any way arising out of or resulting from:
   (A)   The construction, installation, operation, maintenance, repair,
upgrade, or removal of or any risk, event, or occurrence related to the cable
system or any part thereof or activity or function related thereto, or to any
cable service, or the production or distribution thereof;
   (B)   Any other franchisee property;
   (C)   The failure of franchisee or any of its officers, agents, employees,
successors, or assigns to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local
law, rule, regulation, or order; or
   (D)   Any act, omission, or negligence of franchisee, its officers, agents,
employees, successors, or assigns.
(Ord. 807 § 10-827.4, passed 5-16-00)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 115.100 CONTROLLING AUTHORITIES.
   Any franchise or certificate hereunder is controlled by and subject to the
Cable Act, other federal laws, state laws, and all applicable local laws,
ordinances, and regulations, as amended from time to time. Incorporated herein
by reference and made a part of any franchise or related agreement or
certificate are all La Vista city ordinances. In the event of a conflict
between this chapter and any other city ordinance, this chapter will control.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.1, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.101 MAINTENANCE OF CABLE SYSTEM IN GOOD WORKING ORDER.
   Until the termination of a certificate or franchise and the satisfaction in
full by the franchisee of its obligations under this chapter, the franchisee
shall maintain all of the material properties, assets, and equipment of the
cable system and all such items added in connection with any upgrade in good
repair and proper working order and condition.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.2, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.102 BINDING EFFECT.
   This chapter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
franchisee and its permitted transferees, successors, and assigns.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.3, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.103 NO WAIVER; CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The franchisee agues to abide by all the provisions of this chapter and
further agrees it will not at any future time set up as against the City
Council or the City the claim that the provisions of this chapter are
unreasonable, arbitrary, or vague. No failure on the part of the franchising
authority to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right or remedy,
including without limitation the rights and remedies set forth in this chapter,
shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of
any such right or remedy preclude any other right or remedy. Rights and
remedies of franchising authority, including without limitation the rights and
remedies set forth in this chapter, are cumulative and not exclusive of any
remedies provided by law or in equity, and nothing contained in this chapter
shall impair any of the rights or remedies of the franchising authority under
applicable law or in equity.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.4, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.104 NO AGENCY.
   The franchisee shall conduct the work to be performed pursuant to this
chapter as an independent contractor and not as an agent of the franchising
authority.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.5, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.105 GOVERNING LAW.
   Any franchise or certificate hereunder shall be governed in all respects,
including validity, interpretation, and effect, and construed in accordance
with the laws of the state as applicable to contracts entered into and to be
performed entirely within that state and such other laws of the state as are
applicable thereto or the subject matter thereof.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.6, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.106 CLAIMS UNDER AGREEMENT.
   Except to the extent otherwise required by the Cable Act, any and all claims
asserted by or against the franchising authority arising under this chapter or
related thereto shall be heard and determined either in a court of the United
States (“Federal Court”) located in the state or in a court of the state of
appropriate jurisdiction. If the franchising authority initiates any action
against a franchisee in federal court or in a state court, service of process
may be made on the franchisee either in person, wherever such franchisee may be
found, or by registered mail addressed to the franchisee at its office in the
franchise area as required by this chapter, or to such other address as the
franchisee may previously provide to the franchising authority in writing.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.7, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.107 RESERVED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, a franchise
or certificate granted under this chapter shall be subject to the franchising
authority's right to control, manage, and regulate rights-of-way and other
public property; ordinances related to the subject matter of this chapter, as
amended from time to time, and not expressly revoked by the chapter; right to
install or maintain without charge any equipment or lines of the franchising
authority on the poles or in conduit of the franchisee, so long as such use
does not interfere or compete with cable services provided by franchisee; right
to require upon expiration or termination of a franchise that the franchisee
remove at its own cost and expense any or all of the cable system; and option
to reopen any franchise within 90 days of any applicable federal or state law,
regulation, rule, or order that becomes effective after the effective date of
the franchise and affects the right of the franchising authority to regulate
rates or protect subscribers of cable services; and only those matters directly
affected by the legislation shall be at issue in the event the franchise is
reopened.
   (B)   In addition to but not in limitation of the foregoing, the franchising
authority may subsequently impose on any franchisee a requirement to provide
nondiscriminatory access to the franchisee's cable modem platform for providers
if internet access service upon such terms as acceptable to the franchising
authority.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.8, passed 5-16-00)
§ 115.108 CITY'S RIGHT OF INTERVENTION.
   The franchisee agrees not to oppose intervention by the city in any suit or
proceeding to which the franchisee is a party.
(Ord. 807 § 10-828.9, passed 5-16-00)
CHAPTER 116: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
116.01   Applicability
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   General alarm system requirements
   
116.04   Registration requirement
   
116.05   Application for registration; fee; fee reduction for residential fire
alarm systems
   
116.06   Issuance of registration
   
116.07   Term of registration; transfer; termination; renewal
   
116.08   Verification of registration information
   
116.09   Changes to registration information
   
116.10   Required information when reporting an alarm
   
116.11   False alarm fees
   
116.12   Notices
   
116.13   Failure to pay fees
§ 116.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is intended to regulate the activities and responsibilities of
persons who purchase, rent or use and persons who own or conduct the business
of selling, leasing, renting, installing, maintaining or monitoring alarm
systems, devices or services. It is further intended to encourage improvement
in reliability of these systems, devices and services and to insure that Police
and Fire Department personnel will not be unduly diverted from responding to
actual criminal activity or emergencies as a result of responding to false and
nuisance alarms. The chapter specifically applies to burglar alarms, robbery
alarms, hold-up alarms, and panic alarms, and fire alarms, both audible and
inaudible. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to audible alarms
affixed to motor vehicles, or alarm systems that are operated by the city,
county, state or federal government and installed on premises, which such
entity occupies or uses for governmental purposes.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT OF GOD. An unusual, extraordinary, sudden and unexpected
manifestation of the forces of nature, the adverse effects of which cannot be
prevented by reasonable human care, skill or foresight. Such events include
tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other similarly violent conditions.
      ALARM ANSWERING SERVICE or REMOTE MONITORING POINT. A business providing
among its services the service of receiving on a continuous basis, through
trained employees, emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter
immediately relaying the message by live voice to the public safety department
communications center.
      ALARM SYSTEMS. Any device used to detect or prevent intrusion, criminal
activity or other such emergency situations which, when activated, causes
notification to be made directly or indirectly to the Police Department, or any
device or system designed primarily for the purpose of giving an audible or
visual signal of an attempted intrusion, criminal activity or other such
emergency. It shall also mean any device, audible or inaudible, which is used
to detect smoke, heat or sprinkler activation, which when activated, causes
notification to be made directly or indirectly to the Fire Department.
      ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or
facility who purchases, leases, contracts for or otherwise obtains an alarm
system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to monitor and/
or service the alarm device.
      ANNUNCIATOR. That part of an alarm system which communicates the fact
that the system has been triggered.
      AUDIBLE ANNUNCIATOR. An annunciator which gives an alarm by means of a
bell, siren, buzzer, or similar sound-producing device mounted at some location
which, when activated, is clearly audible at a distance of 50 feet or more
outside of any building in which it is mounted.
      COORDINATOR. The person designated by the City Administrator to issue
registrations and enforce the provisions in this chapter.
      FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting an urgent response by police or
fire personnel when a situation requiring an urgent response does not, in fact,
exist, but does not include an alarm signal caused by acts of God or other
extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by the alarm
user. The burden of proof that such an alarm was not a false alarm shall be on
the alarm user.
      FIRE WATCH.  A condition beyond normal staffing, undertaken when any
required fire alarm system is out of service for more than four hours in a 24-
hour period, requiring the assigning of additional personnel to walk the
affected areas. The assigned individuals should be trained in fire prevention
and in occupant and Fire Department notification techniques, and they should
understand the particular fire safety situation.
      KNOX BOX.  A high security key box system; designed to give Fire
Department and emergency services personnel access to locked buildings,
elevators and other secured areas.
      LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system which when activated causes an
audible and/or visual signalling device to be activated and which is intended
to be seen and/or heard by others outside of the protected premises.
      MAINTENANCE. Repair service, including periodic inspections and tests,
required to keep the fire alarm system and its component parts in an operative
condition at all times, and the replacement of the system or its components
when they become undependable or inoperable for any reason.
      NUISANCE ALARM. Any fire alarm caused by mechanical failure, malfunction,
improper installation, or lack of proper maintenance, or any alarm activated by
a cause that cannot be determined.
      PRINCIPAL. The person, firm or corporation whose premises are protected
by an alarm system. In the event that a building having more than one tenant,
such as an apartment building, is protected by a single alarm system, PRINCIPAL
means building owner; only one registration is required per building.
      REGISTRATION. A 12-month period beginning on January 1 of each year and
ending December 31of the same year.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.03 GENERAL ALARM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No alarm system shall be installed, used or maintained in violation of
any of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All fire alarm systems required by law, shall be installed, used and
maintained in accordance with all applicable state laws.
   (C)   The holder of an alarm system registration shall be responsible for
training and retraining all employees, family members and other persons who
make regular use of the protected premises and who may, in the normal course of
their activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger an alarm. Such
training shall include procedures and practices to avoid accidental alarms, and
steps to take in the event the system is accidentally triggered.
   (D)   The holder of the alarm system registration shall, at all times, be
responsible for the proper maintenance and repair of the system and for the
repair and replacement of any component, method of installment, design feature
or like condition which may give rise to a false alarm.
   (E)   Alarms, other than fire alarms, shall be programmed so that each
audible annunciator will automatically silence within 15 minutes of being
activated, and will not sound again unless a new act or circumstance triggers a
sensor.
   (F)   No test of an alarm system incorporating an audible annunciator shall
be conducted between the hours of 8:00 p.m. of any day and 7:00 a.m. the
following day.
   (G)   The application of an alarm system registration shall list the name
and phone number of three persons, or an alarm answering service, having access
to the premises and who may be notified to assist the Police or Fire Department
personnel in the event the alarm is activated. The Principal shall immediately
notify the Coordinator of any changes in this information. This information
must be updated annually.
   (H)   The application for a fire alarm system registration installed in a
commercial, industrial or multi-family dwelling must be accompanied by an
inspection report from an inspector licensed by the State of Nebraska
certifying the alarm system has been installed and is working properly.
   (I)   In all buildings, other than single-family residences or duplexes,
with an installed fire alarm system, a Knox Box System must be installed on the
exterior of the building adjacent to the main door. This must contain all
necessary keys for complete access to the building and fire alarm panel. The
Knox Box can only be purchased with advanced authorization from the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.04 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   As of January 1, 2003, it shall be unlawful for any person within the
jurisdiction of the city to use or operate any alarm system without current
valid registration thereof, not to include single-family residences and
duplexes.
    (B)   Any person within the jurisdiction of the city installing a new alarm
system after the effective date of this chapter shall have 30 days from the
date of installation to obtain a registration therefor as required in this
chapter, not to include single-family residences and duplexes.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION; FEE; FEE REDUCTION FOR RESIDENTIAL FIRE
ALARM SYSTEMS.
   Each application for an alarm system, registration or renewal shall be made
on a form prescribed by the Coordinator and shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the Principal of the
protected premises.
   (B)   The type of premises (apartment, office, variety store, etc.) and any
business name by which the premises is known.
   (C)   The address of the protected premises, including if it is in an
apartment complex, commercial or industrial complex and any name by which the
complex is commonly known.
   (D)   The names, current addresses, and current telephone numbers, including
home phone numbers, of three persons, or an alarm answering service.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee payable to the city. The
applicable fee shall be in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor
and City Council, and a current record of such amount shall be maintained by
the City Clerk.
   (E)   Renewal applications shall be completed annually and will be
accompanied by a fee payable to the city. The applicable fee shall be in such
amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current
record of such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (F)   Alarm system users in single-family residences and duplexes, while
being excused from annual alarm registration, will not be excused from
compliance with all provisions of the chapter, or from any fees incurred as a
result of nuisance alarms.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.06 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION.
   Upon receipt of the completed registration application and fee, the
Coordinator shall, if it appears that the proposed system will comply with the
provisions of this chapter, issue to the applicant a registration bearing an
identifying number, and setting forth the expiration date. The city shall not,
by the issuance of any alarm system registration, be obligated to respond or
accord any priority to an alarm from such system.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.07 TERM OF REGISTRATION; TRANSFER; TERMINATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All alarm system registrations shall be valid for 12 months, and
issued for the calendar year from January 1 to December 31 of the given year.
No rebates, or reduction of registration fee will be granted for registrations
issued that will expire in less than 12 months.
   (B)   All alarm system registrations shall automatically terminate upon any
change of the Principal of protected premises. No registration may be
transferred to another Principal or protected premises. No refunds will be
given on termination of any registration for any reason.
   (C)   The renewal registration will not be issued until the applicable
registration fee is paid, and a late charge, per month or any part thereof,
will be assessed on all registration holders who do not pay the renewal fee
prior to expiration of their existing registrations. The late charge shall be
in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a
current record of such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk. The
renewal application shall contain the Principal's signed statement that there
have been no changes in the Principal or protected premises.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.08 VERIFICATION OF REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   Prior to issuing an alarm system registration, and at any time thereafter
during the term thereof, the Coordinator, or his designee, may conduct, or
direct an investigation to be conducted as is determined necessary to verify
that the information furnished by the application or permittee is correct and
that the system is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Coordinator shall maintain all information obtained by such inspection
confidentially, unless such inspection reveals non-compliance with existing
fire code and/or state statute, the Coordinator or his designee, may contact
appropriate authorities as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.09 CHANGES TO REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   Within ten days following any change of circumstances, which renders
obsolete any of the information, submitted pursuant to §
116.05, the registrant shall file an amendment to his application setting forth
the currently accurate information. No additional fee shall be required unless
the change has terminated the registration as provided in §
116.07.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.10 REQUIRED INFORMATION WHEN REPORTING AN ALARM.
   Any alarm answering service reporting an alarm to the Sarpy County
Communications Center (911 Center), shall give the following information:
   (A)   The Principal or business name, the address of the protected premises,
the type of premises, and the name by which the premises are known, if any.
This information shall be repeated a second time at the end of the message.
   (B)   The name and telephone number of the Principal or agent having ready
access to the protected premises; and
   (C)   The type of criminal activity or emergency that is indicated.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.11 FALSE ALARM FEES.
   (A)   As a condition of any alarm system registration or usage, under the
provisions of this chapter, the registrant or owner of a single-family
residence or duplex shall pay to the city, within 30 days of invoice, for any
false alarm generated by the registrant's alarm system (from January 1 through
December 31 of each year), a fee which shall be in such amount as set from time
to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of such amount
shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
   (B)   All fees will be doubled if a representative from the business or
residence, generally those identified on the application for registration
discussed in §
116.03, does not respond to the property at the request of the police or fire
personnel.
   (C)   For false and nuisance alarms occurring at a commercial or residential
location that does not have a current and valid registration if required:
      (1)   The first false or nuisance alarm will serve as warning and notice
that alarm registration is required,
      (2)   All subsequent false and nuisance alarms will carry a penalty fee
which shall be in such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council, and a current record of such amount shall be maintained by the City
Clerk.
   (D)   The city may revoke the registration of any alarm system other than a
fire alarm system, having more than ten false alarms annually, or when the
assessed fees become delinquent. The system must be removed from the protected
premises within 15 days unless a decision by the Coordinator allows for
reinstatement of alarm system registration.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.12 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice or billing from the city to any registration holder shall be
deemed to have been given or rendered on the date such notice or billing is
deposited in the US mail, first class postage, prepaid, addressed to the
registration holder at the address shown in the city's registration records. A
certificate signed by the person who mailed the notice shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts state therein with respect to such notice.
   (B)   Notice to the city or payment under this chapter shall be effective
when received at the appropriate city office.
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
§ 116.13 FAILURE TO PAY FEES.
   (A)   For all non-fire alarm systems, if the alarm user fails to pay the
registration fee or false alarm fees, written notice shall be sent to the user
by certified mail. If payment is not made within ten days from the date of the
mailing, then the user's permit to maintain an alarm shall be revoked by the
Coordinator. The system must be removed from the protected premises within 15
days, unless a decision by the Coordinator allows for reinstatement of the
alarm systems registration.
   (B)   In the case of a fire alarm system, for which the registration fees or
nuisance alarm fees have not been paid, upon determination of the Coordinator,
or his designee, registration may be revoked and the State Fire Marshall
notified. If such action is taken in a location required by state law to have
an operable fire alarm system, the premises may be closed until the alarm is
brought into compliance, and/or fees have been paid, or an approved fire watch
must be implemented. (See National Fire Protection Association 601, Standard
for Security Services in Fire Loss Prevention, for further information.)
(Ord. 864, passed 6-4-02)
CHAPTER 117: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
117.01   Establishment
   
117.02   Strategy
   
117.03   Purpose
   
117.04   Duration
   
117.05   Definitions
   
117.06   Qualifying businesses
   
117.07   Funding of program
   
117.08   Establish separate development fund
   
117.09   Investment of funds
   
117.10   Disposition of funds on termination
   
117.11   Termination of program
   
117.12   Continuation of program
   
117.13   Audit of funds
   
117.14   Eligible activities
   
117.15   Citizen Advisory Review Committee
   
117.16   Application process and selection of participants
   
117.17   Disclosure of confidential information
   
117.18   Administration system
   
117.19   Legal assurances
   
117.20   Amendment
§ 117.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An Economic Development Program is hereby established for the City of La
Vista, Nebraska, as authorized by the Local Option Municipal Economic
Development Act, Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq. ("Act").
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.02 STRATEGY.
   The Mayor and City Council find and determine as follows: Community and
economic development is essential to the vitality, strength and economic well
being of the city. There is a high degree of competition among states and
municipalities to provide incentives for businesses or services to locate or
expand in or near their respective jurisdictions. The community and economic
development strategy of the city is to be positioned to quickly and effectively
compete for quality community or economic development opportunities. The
strategy further includes lowering the property tax burden by the expansion of
the property and sales tax bases through public investment in the local economy
as a result of the Economic Development Program.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Economic Development Program is to give the city the
flexibility to quickly respond to desirable opportunities for community or
economic development using funds raised from local sources of revenue to
provide incentives or investment in the La Vista community or its
infrastructure for the location or expansion of services or businesses or
rehabilitation of residential neighborhoods in or near the city. The intent and
goals of the city in establishing an economic development program are to
ultimately increase the overall community tax valuation, create jobs and
generate employment opportunities within the La Vista area, attract new
investment capital to the community, develop tourism opportunities, broaden the
tax base, support or capitalize on La Vista's existing or future commercial
developments, rehabilitate residential neighborhoods, expand industrial
development and/or increase economic diversification, stability and vitality
for the City of La Vista and the surrounding area.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.04 DURATION.
   The Economic Development Program established by this chapter shall be in
existence for a period of 25 years beginning on October 1, 2004 and ending on
September 30, 2029. Before October 1, 2004, the Mayor and City Council, Plan
Administrator and/or committees created under this chapter shall be authorized
to plan and prepare for economic development opportunities and activities, so
long as any economic development incentive, assistance, appropriation or funds
raised from local sources of revenue does not commence earlier than October 1,
2004. Revenue to fund this Economic Development Program shall be established
annually during the Program by the Mayor and City Council as part of the city
operating budget and the amount appropriated in any year will not exceed the
applicable statutory limitations described elsewhere below. The Mayor and City
Council may allocate such funds from the existing 1% local option sales tax or
property taxes. The Mayor and City Council shall have authority to extend the
program beyond September 30, 2029 for one or more years as they determine in
their sole discretion advisable to appropriate any unexpended funds that were
collected from local sources of revenue and deposited in the Economic
Development Fund before October 1, 2029 or earnings thereon.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of La Vista, Nebraska.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. Any project or program utilizing funds derived
from local sources of revenue for the purpose of providing direct or indirect
financial assistance to a qualifying business or the payment of related cost
and expenses, or both, without regard to whether that business is identified at
the time the project or program is initiated or is to be determined by
specified means at some time in the future.
   ELECTION. Any general election, primary election, or special election called
by the city as provided by law.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A state or federally chartered bank, a capital stock
state building and loan association, a capital stock federal savings and loan
association, a capital stock federal savings bank, a federally insured capital
stock industrial loan and investment company, and a capital stock state savings
bank.
   LOCAL SOURCES OF REVENUE. The city's local option sales tax, property taxes
and any other sources of revenue as may be from time to time permitted by
applicable law to be utilized for the Economic Development Program.
   QUALIFYING BUSINESS. Defined in §
117.06.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.06 QUALIFYING BUSINESSES.
   A qualifying business shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited
liability company or sole proprietorship which derives its principal source of
income from any of the following: the manufacture of articles of commerce; the
conduct of research and development; the processing storage, transport, or sale
of goods or commodities which are sold or traded in interstate commerce; the
sale of services in interstate commerce; headquarters facilities relating to
activities as listed in this section; telecommunications activities, including
services providing advanced telecommunications capability; tourism-related
activities; or construction or rehabilitation of housing; and any other
business deemed as a qualifying business through future action of the Nebraska
Legislature. A qualifying business need not be located within the territorial
boundaries of the city. If a business which would otherwise be a qualifying
business employs people and carries on activities in more than one city in
Nebraska or will do so at any time during the first year following its
application for participation in the city's Economic Development Program, it
shall be a qualifying business only if, in each such city, it maintains
employment for the first two years following the date on which the business
begins operations in the city as a participant in its Economic Development
Program at a level not less than its average employment in such city over the
12-month period before participation.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.07 FUNDING OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Economic Development Program will be funded annually from October
1, 2004 through September 30, 2029 by various local sources of revenue.
Appropriations of funds directly from local sources of revenue for the program,
in each year during which the program is in existence, shall not exceed four-
tenths of one percent of the taxable valuation of the city in the year in which
the funds are collected or $2,000,000, pursuant to Nebraska RS 18-2717
("Limitations" herein).
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may appropriate such funds from the
existing 1% local option sales tax or property taxes. As part of the annual
municipal budget process the Mayor and City Council shall establish the actual
amount of funding, subject to the limitations provided herein.
   (C)   The total amount to be collected from the local sources of revenue for
the full length of the program for the city shall not exceed the total amount
of funds generated during the full length of the program from 100% of the total
collections of the existing 1% local option sales tax and such property tax
funds up to the limitations described above. The limitations only apply to
appropriation of funds derived directly from local sources of revenue. The
limitations shall not apply to reappropriation of funds which were appropriated
but not expended during previous fiscal years.
   (D)   Following is a preliminary proposed budget for the program. The total
amount proposed to be directly collected from local sources of revenue to
finance the Program may be up to, but not exceed, the total "Maximum Possible
Collections Under State Statute" specified in the preliminary budget.
Fiscal Year            Maximum Possible Collections            Preliminary
Projected Maximum
               Under State Statute                  Expenditures
FY 2005               $2,000,000                     $1,650,000
FY 2006                2,000,000                      1,732,500
FY 2007                2,000,000                       1,819,125
FY 2008                2,000,000                      1,910,025
FY 2009                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2010                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2011                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2012               $2,000,000                     $2,000,000
FY 2013                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2014                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2015                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2016                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2017                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2018                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2019                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2020                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2021                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2022                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2023                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2024                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2025                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2026                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2027                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2028                2,000,000                      2,000,000
FY 2029                2,000,000                      2,000,000
   Total             $50,000,000                     $49,111,650
   (E)   The city shall have the authority to issue bonds pursuant to the Local
Option Municipal Economic Development Act to provide funds to carry out the
Economic Development Program. Also, additional funds from other non-city
sources may be sought beyond those derived from local sources of revenue.
   (F)   It is expected that less than 5% of amounts allocated for the Economic
Development Program will be used for administration (legal fees, audit fees,
etc.) with at least 95% of amounts allocated for the program to be used for
eligible activities under the Program. Any allocated funds not used for
administration activities in a fiscal year shall be allocated to be available
to be used for eligible activities under the program.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.08 ESTABLISH SEPARATE DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   The city shall establish a separate Economic Development Fund pursuant to
Neb. RS 18-2718. Any funds derived from local sources of revenue for the
program, earnings from the investment of such funds, any loan payment, any
proceeds from the sale by the city of assets purchased by the city under the
Economic Development Program, or any other money received by the city by reason
of the Economic Development Program, shall be deposited into the Economic
Development Fund. Any proceeds from the issuance and sale of bonds to provide
funds to carry out the Economic Development Program, except for refunding bonds
in Neb. RS 18-2732, shall also be deposited into the Economic Development Fund.
Unless otherwise authorized, money in the Economic Development Fund shall not
be deposited in the general fund of the city and the city shall not transfer or
remove funds from the Economic Development Fund nor shall they be co-mingled
with any other city funds.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.09 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Any money in the Economic Development Fund, not currently required or
committed for purposes of the Economic Development Program, shall be invested
as provided in Neb. RS 77-2341.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.10 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS ON TERMINATION.
   In the event the Economic Development Program is terminated, the balance of
the money in the Economic Development Fund, not otherwise committed by contract
under the Program, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city. Any
funds received by the city, by reason of the Economic Development Program,
after the termination of such program, shall be transferred from the Economic
Development Fund to the General Fund of the city as such funds are received.
The Economic Development Fund shall not be terminated until such time as all
projects and contracts related to the program have been finally completed and
all funds related to them fully accounted for, with no further city action
required, and after completion of the final audit.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.11 TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.
   When the Economic Development Program is terminated, the governing body of
the city, shall, by resolution, certify the amount of money to be transferred
from the Economic Development Fund to the General Fund of the city and the
amount that it is anticipated will be received by the city between such time
and final audit of the Economic Development Fund pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2718.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.12 CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM.
   If, after five full budget years, following initiation of the approved
development program, less than 50% of money collected from local sources of
revenue is spent or committed by contract for the Economic Development Program,
the governing body of the city shall place the question of the continuation of
the Economic Development Program on the ballot at the next regular election.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.13 AUDIT OF FUNDS.
   The city shall provide for an annual, outside, independent audit of the
Economic Development Program, by a qualified auditing business. The auditing
business shall not, at the time of the audit or any period during the audit,
have any contractual or business relationship with any qualifying business
receiving funds or assistance under the Economic Development Program, or any
financial institution directly involved with a qualifying business receiving
funds or assistance under the Economic Development Program. The result of such
audit shall be filed with the City Clerk and made available for public review
during normal business hours. Every applicant or recipient under the Economic
Development Program agrees by submitting an application under the program to
provide at its cost such financial statements, audits and access to books,
records and statements as the city from time to time requests or requires.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.14 ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The eligible economic activities of the Program are those activities
from time to time permitted by Nebraska statute or authorized by the Mayor and
City Council, including, but not limited to, the following activities: direct
loans or grants to qualifying businesses, including loans and grants for fixed
assets or working capital or both; loan guarantees for qualifying businesses;
expenditures or grants for public works improvements, site development, and
infrastructure improvements which are essential to the location or expansion
of, or the provision of new services by, qualifying businesses, the
construction of buildings to be leased or sold to said businesses, or the
development of public facilities; the purchase of, or obtaining, renewing or
extending options to purchase, real estate, including commercial, industrial
and public sites; grants or loans for job training; the issuance of bonds as
provided for in the Act, payments for salaries and support of city staff to
implement the Economic Development Program or for contracting the same to an
outside entity; and grants or loans for the construction or rehabilitation for
sale or lease of housing for persons of low or moderate income. Land to be
purchased either directly or through options may be within or without the
corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   Purchase of land. As a part of the program, the city may purchase
real property or options on real property when such property is located within
the corporate limits of the city or the city's extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction or future growth and development area. The Program Administrator
shall be responsible for recommending real property purchases to the Mayor and
City Council following review of available real property which meets the goals
and strategies of this Economic Development Program and reporting the same to
the Mayor and City Council. The city shall comply will all statutory
requirements when purchasing real property and the city may use the proceeds
from any future sale of the property for additional real property purchases.
      (2)   Housing rehabilitation. As a part of the program, the city may make
grants or loans for the construction or rehabilitation for sale or lease of
housing for persons of low or moderate income. The income level standards which
will qualify persons as low or moderate income for participation in the program
shall be based upon U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development guidelines
or standards (or other federal government agency or department identified by
the city in the event the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
ceases to exist, be known by that name, or provide relevant guidelines or
standards) existing from time to time for qualifying for federal housing
assistance, as may be modified by the city based on information from the
Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services, Nebraska Department of
Economic Development or other sources the city determines are relevant in
consideration of local and regional economic conditions and income levels from
time to time existing. The city shall consider the following criteria to
determine whether any adjustments to income of persons would be appropriate
when assessing their qualification for participation in the program:
         (a)   Amount of income of the person available for housing needs;
         (b)   Size of family to reside in each housing unit;
         (c)   Cost and condition of housing available in the city;
         (d)   Whether the person or any member of the person's family who will
be residing in the housing unit is elderly, infirm or disabled;
         (e)   Ability of the person to compete successfully in the private
housing market and pay the amounts the private enterprise market requires for
safe, sanitary and uncrowded housing; and
         (f)   Such other factors as the city from time to time determines
which are particularly relevant to the conditions facing persons seeking new or
rehabilitated housing in the city.
      (3)    Loan fund. The city may establish a loan fund under the Economic
Development Program. The loan fund shall be organized and operated as
determined by the city based on loan or financing programs from time to time
offered business ventures by the Small Business Administration (or other
federal government agency identified by the city in the event the Small
Business Administration ceases to exist, be known by that name, or provide
relevant loan or financing programs) ("SBA") or the State of Nebraska. The
particular requirements, conditions, standards and criteria of any loan or
financing provided by the city under the loan fund shall be consistent with the
relevant SBA or State of Nebraska loan or financing program on which the
particular loan or financing provided by the city is based. The SBA or State of
Nebraska requirements, standards, conditions or criteria will be the minimum
applicable to the city loan fund with respect to the matters listed in (a)
through (d) below. The city can in any case impose additional or greater
requirements, standards, criteria or conditions as determined under the
circumstances appropriate.
         (a)   Types of financial assistance available, the maximum proportion
of financial assistance that will be provided to any single qualifying business
and the criteria used to determine the appropriate level of assistance;
         (b)   The criteria and procedures that will be used to determine the
necessity and appropriateness of permitting a qualifying business to
participate in the loan fund;
         (c)   The criteria for determining the time within which a qualifying
business must meet the goals set for it under its participation agreement; and
         (d)   Standards for loan delinquency, declaration of default, and
actions to be taken upon default (consistent with Neb. RS 18-2520).
   (B)   At the time a qualifying business applies to the city to participate
in the loan fund, the business shall provide to the city appropriate
documentation evidencing its negotiations with one or more primary lenders and
the terms upon which it has received or will receive the portion of total
financing which will not be provided by the city.
   (C)   The investment strategies that the city will pursue to promote the
growth of the loan fund while assuring its security and liquidity will be in
accordance with applicable law. The Finance Director of the city will have
primary responsibility for administration of loan servicing, unless otherwise
specified by the Mayor and City Council.
   (D)   The loan fund will be administered in accordance with applicable law,
including Neb. RS 18-2720. The city does not at this time expect that any
personnel or other assistance beyond regular city employees will be needed to
assist in the administration of the loan fund. However, if the City
Administrator at any time determines that additional personnel or assistance is
needed, payment or reimbursement for the same shall be provided from the loan
fund unless otherwise approved by the city.
   (E)   The loan fund will be audited annually in conjunction with the audit
of the Economic Development Program pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2721. In addition,
any applicant or recipient of lending or other financing from the loan fund is
required to provide at its cost such financial statements, audits and access to
books, records and statements as the city from time to time requests or
requires. All applicants and recipients are deemed to agree to this condition
by the submittal of an application under this Economic Development Program.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.15 CITIZENS ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created a Citizen Advisory Review Committee, which shall
review the functioning and progress of the Economic Development Program and
shall advise the Mayor and City Council with regard to the Program. The
Committee shall consist of five registered voters of the city. Said members
shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to approval by the City Council. The
members of the Committee shall serve for five-year terms. Any member of the
Committee may be removed from office by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Council.
   (A)   At least one member of the Committee shall have expertise or
experience in the field of business finance and accounting.
   (B)   The Program Administrator specified below shall have responsibility
for the administration of the Economic Development Program and serve as an ex
officio member of the Committee with responsibility for assisting the Committee
and providing it with necessary information and advice on the Economic
Development Program.
   (C)   A representative from the Sarpy County Economic Development
Corporation and any other person as from time to time designated by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council may also serve as an ex-officio member of
the Citizen Advisory Review Committee and may also provide the committee with
necessary information and advise the Committee on the Economic Development
Program.
   (D)   No member of the Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall be an elected
or appointed city official, a member of any planning commission created under
Neb. RS 19-925, an employee of the city, a member of the Application Review
Committee or otherwise a participant in a decision-making position regarding
expenditures of program funds, or an official or employee of any qualifying
business receiving financial assistance under the Economic Development Program
or of any financial institution participating directly in the Economic
Development Program.
   (E)   The Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall elect a chairperson from
its membership and shall create and fill such other offices as it may
determine. The term of the chairperson shall be one year and such person shall
be eligible for re-election.
   (F)   The Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall hold regular meetings once
per quarter to review the functioning and progress of the Economic Development
Program and shall advise the governing body of the city with regard to the
program. Special meetings of the Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall be
held whenever called by the Mayor or the chairperson for the Committee.
   (G)   At least once in every six-month period after the effective date of
this chapter, the Committee shall report to the governing body on its findings
and suggestions at a public hearing called for that purpose.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03; Am. Ord. 1355, passed 7-2-19)
§ 117.16 APPLICATION PROCESS AND SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   In order for a qualifying business to be considered for program
benefits, the qualifying business shall first become an applicant by applying
to the city for assistance. Applications shall be signed, dated and submitted
in the manner, on such forms, in the number of originals and duplicates, and
with such person(s) specified from time to time by the Program Administrator.
The application shall contain information as required by this Program and any
additional information, assurances, certifications, requirements or guarantees
as may be specified by the Program Administrator and/or the Application Review
Committee.
      (1)   Applications for assistance from a qualifying business shall
include the following information:
         (a)   SBA Form 4 application, with such modifications as authorized by
the city;
         (b)   Business plan which includes financial projections for the next
three years where appropriate;
         (c)   Signed copies of the most recent two years' federal tax returns
or all years where the applicant has been in existence for less than two years;
         (d)   Signed copies of financial statements of the applicant for the
two most recent fiscal years or all fiscal years where the applicant has been
in existence for less than two years;
         (e)   Where the applicant is a closely held entity, signed balance
sheets from the holders or beneficial owners of more than 25% of the ownership
interests in the entity; and
         (f)   Other information as requested by the Program Administrator or
the Application Review Committee.
      (2)   The Program Administrator may waive the furnishing of all or any
portion of the above items or any other requirement where the Program
Administrator is able to obtain reasonable assurance as to the stability of the
qualifying business from other reliable sources or information, including
audited financial statements and filings with regulatory agencies (i.e. SEC
filings).
      (3)   The Program Administrator may also waive the furnishing of all or
any portion of the above items where the qualifying business agrees that no
funds shall be paid to or for the benefit of the qualifying business until the
qualifying business has performed according to agreed upon criteria.
      (4)   The Program Administrator may use any method he or she determines
appropriate to verify the information provided by the applicant, including, but
not limited to, the following: credit checks, Dun & Bradstreet reports,
examination of internal records and audit reports, and any other reasonable
methods as determined by the Program Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, the Program Administrator shall make a
preliminary determination as to whether the application appears to be viable,
based on whether:
      (1)   The applicant is eligible;
      (2)   The proposed activities are eligible;
      (3)   The applicant has any actual or potential legal actions or other
risks that may significantly impact its ability to perform; and
      (4)   The applicant has complied with application requirements.
   (C)   Once the Program Administrator makes a determination that the
application appears to be viable, the application is referred to the
Application Review Committee appointed by the Mayor with City Council approval.
The Application Review Committee shall be separate and apart from the Citizen
Advisory Review Committee and no member of the Application Review Committee
shall at the same time be a member of the Citizen Advisory Review Committee.
The Application Review Committee shall review the application and any
supplemental financial or other information furnished and provide
recommendations to the Program Administrator concerning negotiations with the
applicant and whether any further information, assurances, certifications,
requirements or guarantees from the applicant are desired.
   (D)   Once the Application Review Committee has completed its review, and
following any additional negotiations conducted by the Program Administrator,
the committee shall make a recommendation that:
      (1)   The application be approved,
      (2)   The application be denied, or
      (3)   The Committee is not able to make a recommendation due to lack of
information or other factors that may be cited by the Committee.
   (E)   (1)   The Committee will have authority to deny or recommend approval
of any application, subject to any conditions the committee determines
appropriate. Denial or recommendation of approval will be based on the
Committee's review of the application and other information provided and a
determination whether the applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Committee:
         (a)   The applicant's eligibility for funding,
         (b)   That the type and amount of assistance is appropriate and
desirable for the city,
         (c)   A desirable level, type and quality of public benefit to the
city or its residents from the applicant's proposed use of the funding, and
         (d)   That the timing, type, magnitude and probability of public
benefit that the Committee determines is likely to be achieved from the funding
is reasonable and efficient in relation to the cost of funding provided.
      (2)   If the application is denied or the Committee is unable to make a
recommendation, the application shall be deemed denied and a summary of the
reasons may be given. Any deemed denial of an application shall be final and
binding on all parties.
   (F)   All recommendations of the Application Review Committee for approval
of an application shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration of
approval and funding. The City Council shall approve, reject, or refer back to
the Committee for further consideration, the Application Review Committee's
recommendation, subject to any conditions the City Council determines
appropriate. In making its determination, the City Council shall generally not
be presented with any information which has been determined by the Program
Administrator or the Application Review Committee as confidential. An applicant
which has been awarded funding under the program shall be referred to as a
Funded Business.
   (G)   There shall be no limit on the number of times that a qualifying
business may apply for assistance. Applications shall be received until all
funds anticipated for the program have been committed. The decision as to
whether or not program benefits shall be granted on applications that the
Application Review Committee recommends for approval to the City Council is at
the sole discretion of the City Council and is final and binding on all
parties. The City Council may modify the application and selection process
provided in this section from time to time as determined necessary or
appropriate.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.17 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Program Administrator, members of the Citizen Advisory Review
Committee or members of the Application Review Committee may be permitted
access to business information received by the city in the course of its
administration of the Economic Development Program, which information would
otherwise be private, proprietary or confidential:
      (1)   Under Neb. RS 84-712.05,
      (2)   By agreement with a qualifying business submitting an application
under or participating in the Economic Development Program, or
      (3)   Under any ordinance of the city providing access to such
information to the Program Administrator or members of either Committee and
guaranteeing the confidentiality of such information received by reason of its
administration of the Economic Development Program.
   (B)   Neither the Program Administrator nor any member of a Committee shall
divulge any such information to any other person or entity, except as required
by law.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.18 ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is important to have a clearly defined administration system for
the Program. It is the intent of the Program that the majority of the funds be
used for eligible activities and a relatively smaller portion on administration
of the Program. A description of the administration of the Program is below.
The city is authorized to provide for any additional responsibilities or
positions from time to time as may be needed to carry out the Program.
   (B)   Program Administrator. The City Administrator shall be the Program
Administrator. The duties of the Program Administrator include:
      (1)   Administration of the Program.
      (2)   Serve as an ex-officio but non-voting member of the Citizen
Advisory Review Committee.
      (3)   Assist the Citizen Advisory Review Committee and provide it with
necessary information and advice on the Program.
      (4)   Track employment figures for participating businesses for two years
if businesses employ persons in other Nebraska communities.
      (5)   On a regular basis review whether qualifying businesses are
carrying out their responsibilities under the Program and following the
applicable agreements, laws and regulations.
   (C)   The Program Administrator may from time to time designate such
individuals or, with approval of the Mayor and City Council, contract with
outside entities, and delegate such responsibilities, duties or tasks to said
individuals or entities that she determines necessary or appropriate to
administer the Economic Development Program.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.19 LEGAL ASSURANCES.
   The city will endeavor to comply with applicable laws, regulations and
requirements, which will be facilitated through the checks and balances built
into the Program pursuant to Nebraska statute, including:
   (A)   The Citizens Advisory Review Committee is responsible for periodically
meeting, reviewing the functioning of the Program and advising the governing
body of the city with regard to the Program. At least one of the members of the
Committee will have expertise or experience in business finance or accounting.
It is anticipated that others on the Committee will have expertise or
experience that will assist the city comply with applicable requirements. The
makeup of the Committee pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2715 decreases the likelihood of
conflicts of interest on the Committee with others related to the program and
increases the opportunity for objectivity in carrying out Committee duties.
   (B)   The Program Administrator will provide ongoing oversight in the
administration of the program.
   (C)   The city will have the Program annually audited by an outside,
independent private auditing business, the results of which will be filed with
the City Clerk and made available for public review during normal business
hours. The city also will have access to applicant and recipient books and
records.
   (D)   Funding awards and annual appropriations for the program require City
Council approval.
   (E)   The City Attorney will provide desired consultation to the City upon
request regarding significant changes to the Local Option Municipal Economic
Development Act.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
§ 117.20 AMENDMENT.
   The Mayor and City Council may amend this chapter:
   (A)   From time to time to conform to the provisions of any existing or
future state or federal law,
   (B)   After notice, at least one public hearing, and a 2/3 vote of the
members of the city's governing body, when necessary to accomplish the purposes
of the original enabling resolution, or
   (C)   As otherwise permitted from time to time by applicable law.
(Ord. 921, passed 12-2-03)
CHAPTER 118: NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
Section
   
118.01   Franchise granted
   
118.02   Term
   
118.03   Governing rules and regulations
   
118.04   Location, construction and maintenance of company facilities
   
118.05   Standard equipment
   
118.06   Odorizing of gas
   
118.07   Extension of company facilities
   
118.08   Relocation of company facilities
   
118.09   Insurance
   
118.10   Acceptance of franchise
   
118.11   Franchise fee
   
118.12   Financial and operational record requirements
   
118.13   Transfer
   
118.14   Regulatory authority
   
118.15   Confidential information
   
118.16   Force majeure
   
118.17   Hold harmless
   
118.18   Severability
   
118.19   Non-waiver
   
118.20   Repeal conflicting ordinances
   
118.21   Effect and interpretation of chapter
   
118.22   Effective date and acceptance
   
118.23   Notices
§ 118.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   The City of La Vista, Nebraska, (hereinafter referred to as "city") hereby
grants a non-exclusive franchise to Aquila, Inc, d/b/a Aquila Networks, a
Delaware corporation, (hereinafter called "grantee"), its lessees, successors
and assigns. Grantee is hereby granted the right, privilege, franchise,
permission and authority to lay, construct, install, maintain, operate and
extend in, along, over or across the present and future streets, alleys,
avenues, bridges, public rights-of-way and public places as are now within the
present or future limits of said city, a natural gas distribution system and
all facilities necessary for the purpose of supplying natural gas or processed
gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of said city and consumers in the
vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of natural gas from or through said
city to points beyond the limits thereof. Such facilities shall include, but
not be limited to, all mains, services, pipes, conduits and appliances
necessary or convenient for transmitting, transporting, distributing and
supplying natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all
other things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the
inhabitants of city and in carrying on such business. The laying or
installation of additional pipe within the city and its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction shall require a right-of-way permit for that purpose.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.02 TERM.
   The franchise granted under this chapter shall remain in effect for a period
of 25 years from the effective date of this chapter, as determined pursuant to
state law; provided, however, that city or grantee may terminate this chapter
on the tenth anniversary of the effective date of this chapter, and every five
years thereafter until the franchise term expires. City or grantee shall notify
the other party in writing, no later than 180 days before the end of the
initial term or each five-year anniversary thereafter that city desires not to
renew the franchise.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.03 GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The franchise granted under this chapter is subject to all conditions,
limitations and immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and
applicable to the operations of a public utility, by state or federal law. The
rates to be charged by grantee for service within the present or future
corporate limits of city and the rules and regulations regarding the character,
quality and standards of service to be furnished by grantee shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to
time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates,
regulations and quality and standards of service to be supplied by grantee.
Provided however, should any judicial, regulatory or legislative body, having
proper jurisdiction, take any action that precludes grantee from recovering
from its customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then
grantee and city shall renegotiate the terms of this chapter in accordance with
the action taken, so as to allow grantee to be made whole economically.
   (B)   In determining the rights and duties of the grantee, the terms of this
chapter shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or requirements
contained in any other ordinance enacted by the city. The foregoing
notwithstanding, grantee shall be and remain subject to all ordinances, rules,
and regulations of the city now in effect, or which city might subsequently
adopt, for the regulation of land uses or the protection of the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public; provided, however, that grantee hereby
reserves the right to challenge the validity of any ordinance, rule or
regulation city passes subsequent to the date of this chapter, and to terminate
this chapter upon 90 days advance written notification, if such subsequent
ordinance, rule or regulation imposes any material new costs and/or burdens
upon the grantee, and provided that nothing herein shall be construed as a
waiver by grantee of any of its existing or future rights under state or
federal law or a limitation upon the existing or future powers of the city
under state or federal law.
   (C)   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of
energy due to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body,
or other acts beyond the control of the grantee, then the grantee shall have
the right and authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting,
curtailing or allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any
customers or prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new
customers, provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied
to each class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-
discriminatory as between communities receiving service from the grantee.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.04 LOCATION, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   (A)   All mains, services and pipes which shall be hereafter laid or
installed under this chapter shall be located in public right-of-way and shall
be located and laid so as not to obstruct or interfere with any existing or
planned water pipes, drains, sewers, paving or other structures, and all such
mains, services and pipes shall be laid in place subject to the reasonable
approval of the city or subject to the reasonable approval of such
representative as city may from time to time provide. Any pavements, sidewalks
or curbing taken up and any and all excavations made shall be done in such a
manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the inhabitants of city and to
the general public as is reasonably necessary; and repairs and replacements
shall be made promptly by grantee, leaving such properties in as good as
condition as existed immediately prior to excavation. If grantee does not
promptly perform and complete the necessary work to restore the public right-
of-way of other public property, and fails to properly restore the public
right-of-way within 30 days after receipt of written notice by the city to
grantee of the condition, then the city may restore the public right-of-way or
other public property. The city may seek reimbursement from grantee for the
reasonable expense of restoration for the work performed by the city or its
agents.
   (B)   Grantee agrees that for the term of this grant, it will maintain
facilities and equipment sufficient to meet the current and future energy
requirements of city, its inhabitants and industries. While constructing and
maintaining its facilities and equipment, grantee shall obtain permits as
required by ordinance, except that in emergency situations, grantee shall take
immediate unilateral actions as it determines are necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare; in which case, grantee shall notify city as
soon as reasonably possible.
   (C)   City will give grantee reasonable notice of plans for street
improvements where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that
affect grantee's facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character
of the improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be
made, the extent of the improvements and the time when the city will start the
work, and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which this
work is to proceed. The notice shall be given to the grantee a sufficient
length of time, considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the
actual commencement of the work to permit the grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.05 STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
   Grantee, in the construction, operation, and maintenance of the gas system
in the city, shall use only pipes, material, and equipment that meet applicable
federal, state, and local construction and safety codes. Grantee shall also use
reasonably and legally required safety devices to protect the city and its
residents from injury as required by federal, state, and local laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.06 ODORIZING OF GAS.
   Grantee shall odorize, as necessary, the gas provided within the city in
accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.07 EXTENSION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, grantee
shall, subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable
extensions of its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the
current corporate limits of city; provided, that the grantee shall not be
obligated to construct or extend its mains or furnish gas or gas service within
the city if grantee, through no fault of its own, is unable to obtain delivery
of an adequate supply of natural gas at or near the corporate limits of city to
warrant the construction or extension of its mains; provided, further, that
when the amount of natural gas supplied to grantee at or near the city limits
is insufficient to meet the additional firm requirements of connected or new
customers, grantee shall have the right to prescribe reasonable rules and
regulations for allocating the available supply of natural gas for such
additional firm requirements to domestic, commercial, and industrial consumers,
in that order of priority.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.08 RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   (A)   If city elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public
purpose, grantee, upon reasonable notice from city, shall remove and relocate
its facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such
removal is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience
of the city, at the cost and expense of grantee. If city orders or requests
grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
city or other right-of-way user, grantee shall receive payment for the cost of
such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause grantee unreasonable additional expense
in exercising its authority under this section. City shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for grantee's facilities. City shall give
grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
are first paid to the grantee.
   (B)   Any person or corporation desiring to move a building or other
structure along, or to make any unusual use of any street, alley, avenue,
bridge, public right-of-way or public place which shall interfere with the
facilities or equipment of the grantee, shall first give notice to the city and
the grantee and a pay a sum sufficient to cover the expense and damage incident
to the moving of grantee's facilities and equipment.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.09 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Grantee shall maintain insurance at all times during the term of this
chapter in an amount not less than the city's maximum liability under the
Nebraska Political Subdivisions Tort Claim Act, as amended from time to time,
to cover and protect itself and the city as an additional insured from and
against all claims, demands, losses, actions, judgments, costs, expenses, and
liabilities which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by
reason of loss, injury, or damage to the city, its property, employees or
agents, or to other persons or their property on account of or arising from the
grant or exercise of the franchise granted by this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to and not in limitation of the foregoing, grantee shall
be insured to provide coverage for all foreseeable and unforeseeable risks,
injuries and damages, on account of or arising from this chapter and such
coverage shall include, but not be limited to the following types:
      (1)   Insurance which will protect the city from claims arising under
workers' compensation law and any similar employee benefit law in such amounts
as are required by state and federal statute, and with respect to an employer's
liability for workers' compensation;
      (2)   Bodily injury and property insurance for comprehensive general
liability (including explosion, collapse and underground), contractual
liability (including that arising from this chapter), personal injury (with
employment exclusion deleted), and comprehensive automobile liability
(including hired and non-owned vehicles). It is a condition of this chapter
that all policies waive governmental immunity as a defense in any action
brought against the insured or any other party to this chapter. Upon request by
city, grantee shall furnish proof of the insurance required under this section.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.10 ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   Within 60 days after the passage of this chapter, grantee shall prepare and
file a written acceptance of the franchise granted under this chapter with the
City Clerk. Failure of grantee to so accept the franchise granted by this
chapter within said period of time shall be deemed a rejection thereof by
grantee and the rights and privileges herein granted shall after the expiration
of said period of 60 days, if not so accepted, absolutely cease and terminate,
unless said period of time shall be extended by further ordinance duly passed
for that purpose.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.11 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Grantee shall pay to the City Treasurer a franchise fee based on a
percentage of grantee's gross revenues derived from sales or transportation of
natural gas delivered within the city excluding sales or transportation to
governmental agencies, departments, or other governmental bodies whether they
be federal, state or local. The franchise fee shall be 5% of gross revenues but
may be amended by city from time to time to provide for such different rate as
city's governing body may determine appropriate. Such franchise fee shall be in
lieu of any and all fees and impositions of city based on gross revenues or
license fees for the privilege of conducting a gas business within the city.
Nothing herein shall be construed to exempt grantee from payment of ad valorem
property taxes or taxes in lieu thereof.
   (B)   Grantee shall pay to the city on or before the 15th day of each month
that portion of the fee applicable to gross receipts derived from sales or
transportation of natural gas delivered within the city during the previous
month. Any amount due which is not paid on or before the prescribed date shall
draw interest at 1% per month, and after payment has been in default six
months, a penalty of 5% of the amount due, including interest, shall be added
thereto in addition to the monthly interest charge.
   (C)   For purposes hereof, GROSS REVENUES shall include all revenues derived
from delivery of gas within the City of La Vista which utilize, in whole or in
part, any pipes, containers or other equipment or form of delivery or storage
over which grantee has any ownership or control. GROSS REVENUES shall include
revenues derived in third party marketing arrangements, such as "Energy Option
Programs" or other arrangements whereby the marketer or seller of the gas is a
third party who utilizes grantee's lines, containers, or other method, in whole
or in part, to deliver gas within the city. In respect to any such third party
arrangements, grantee shall determine the sale price of the gas at the
franchise rate and shall remit to city as part of its franchise fee an amount
equal to the amount that would have been payable to city had the gas been sold
to the consumer directly by grantee.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.12 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RECORD REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon five days' notice, subject to confidential protection, and to the
extent permitted by Nebraska law, the books, records, contracts, and other
documents directly related to the grantee's franchise and its public right-of-
way use shall be open to reasonable inspection by the city, or by any person
designated by the city, and grantee shall provide within 30 days following
request by the city, or any person designated by the city, all additional
relevant information requested by the city or by any person designated by the
city. To the extent permitted under Nebraska law, the city shall maintain the
confidentiality of all information provided by the grantee that is not in the
public domain.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.13 TRANSFER.
   (A)   The franchise granted under this chapter shall not be sold, leased,
granted, conveyed, transferred, hypothecated or assigned to any person or
exercised by any person other than grantee without consent from the city, which
consent may not be unreasonably withheld, and which consent is subject to the
requirements of Neb. RS 66-1820 and 66-1821.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the restrictions on transfers set forth above, no such
consent shall be required whenever:
         (1)   Grantee has assigned the rights, and obligations under this
chapter to an affiliate of grantee; provided that such affiliate has expressly
assumed, in a writing delivered to city evidencing its ability to so assume,
grantee's obligations and responsibilities under the franchise agreement;
provided, further, that grantee shall remain fully liable for and shall not be
relieved from the full performance of all obligations under the franchise
agreement; or
         (2)   Grantee has assigned all of grantee's rights and obligations
under the franchise agreement to any entity that has acquired, directly or
indirectly:
            (a)   Control of grantee,
            (b)   An entity into which grantee has merged,
            (c)   An entity that has acquired all or substantially all of the
assets of grantee's Nebraska properties; or
            (d)   An entity to which grantee has assigned, transferred, or
pledged the rights and privileges under the franchise agreement, for mortgage
or otherwise assigned its rights hereunder as security for indebtedness.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall be equally applicable to any
subsequent assignment or transfer by an assignee or transferee of grantee. No
approval or deemed approval of a transfer or assignment of the franchise
agreement granted under this chapter shall operate as a waiver or release of
the city's right to condemn the system or any part thereof pursuant to Nebraska
law.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.14 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The city expressly reserves, subject to grantee's express right to challenge
the adoption or enforceability of such ordinances, rules, or regulations, the
city's right and duty to adopt, in addition to the provisions in this chapter,
ordinances, rules, and regulations as the city deems necessary to exercise its
police power for the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of its
citizens and their properties.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.15 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   City acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to this
chapter may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If grantee requests
that any information provided by grantee to city be kept confidential due to
such proprietary or commercial value, city and its employees, agents, and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of that information, to the
extent allowed by law. If city is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such confidential information, city
shall promptly notify grantee of such request or requirement so that grantee
may seek an appropriate protective order or othen relief. City shall use all
reasonable efforts to ensure that the confidentiality of grantee's confidential
information is maintained.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.16 FORCE MAJEURE.
   (A)   It shall not be a breach or default under this chapter if either party
fails to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. FORCE MAJEURE
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Physical events such as acts of God, landslides, lightning,
earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods, washouts, explosions, breakage or
accident or necessity of repairs to machinery, equipment or distribution or
transmission lines;
      (2)   Acts of others such as strikes, workforce stoppages, riots,
sabotage, insurrections or wars;
      (3)   Governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any
court order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation
promulgated by a governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other
causes, whether of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably
within the control of the affected party to prevent or overcome.
   (B)   Each party shall make reasonable efforts to avoid force majeure and to
resolve such event as promptly as reasonably possible once it occurs in order
to resume performance; provided, however, that this provision shall not
obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.17 HOLD HARMLESS.
   Grantee, during the term of the franchise granted under this chapter, agrees
to save harmless city from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses
arising directly out of the negligence of grantee, its employees or agents, in
the constructing, operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission
facilities or appliances of grantee; provided, however, that grantee need not
save harmless city from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising solely out
of the negligence of city, its employees or agents.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.18 SEVERABILITY.
   If any clause, sentence or section of this chapter is deemed invalid by any
judicial, regulatory or legislative body having proper jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall not be affected.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.19 NON-WAIVER.
   Any waiver of any obligation or default under this franchise shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.20 REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   This chapter, when accepted by grantee as provided below, shall constitute
the entire agreement between the city and the grantee relating to the franchise
and the same shall supersede all prior ordinances pertaining to the franchise
agreement, and any terms and conditions of such prior ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Ordinance No. 651, passed
June 4, 1996, is hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.21 EFFECT AND INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   The captions which precede each section of this chapter are for convenience
in reference only and shall not be taken into consideration in the
interpretation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.22 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE.
   This chapter shall become effective and be a binding contract between the
city and grantee, upon its final passage and approval by city, in accordance
with applicable laws and regulations, and upon acceptance by grantee by written
instrument within 60 days of passage by the governing body, and filed with the
City Clerk of the City of La Vista, Nebraska. The City Clerk shall sign and
affix the community seal to acknowledge receipt of such acceptance, and return
one copy to grantee.
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
§ 118.23 NOTICES.
   Any notices required to be given hereunder shall be sent to the following:
   (A)   If to grantee:
         Steve Pella, Vice President
         Aquila, Inc., d/b/a Aquila Networks
         1600 Windhoek
         Lincoln, Nebraska 68512
   (B)   If to city:
         City Clerk
         8116 Park View Boulevard
         La Vista, Nebraska 68128
(Ord. 974, passed 12-6-05)
CHAPTER 119: TOBACCO PRODUCT SALE REGULATIONS
Section
   
119.01   Findings and intent
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Certain forms of distribution prohibited
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   The City Council hereby declares that it is the policy of the city to affirm
the scientific evidence that the use of tobacco products, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, and alternative nicotine products is causally connected to
many diseases and is dangerous to human health. Placing tobacco products and
systems out of the reach of children and teenagers will reduce the likelihood
that children and teenagers will use such products and systems.
(Ord. 999, passed 7-18-06; Am. Ord. 1446, passed 2-1-22)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing nicotine
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed, dissolved, or
ingested by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does not include any
electronic nicotine delivery system, cigarette, cigar, or other tobacco
product, or any product regulated as a drug or device by the United States Food
and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act.
   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any product or device containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit,
or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or
size, to simulate smoking by delivering the nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives in vapor, fog, mist, gas, or aerosol form to a person inhaling from
the product or device. ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives, whether sold separately or sold in combination with a product or
device that is intended to deliver to a person nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
derivatives in vapor, for, mist, gas, or aerosol form;
         (b)   Any product or device marketed, manufactured, distributed, or
sold as an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, electronic hookah, or similar products, names, descriptors, or
devices; and
         (c)   Any component, part, or accessory of such a product or device
that is used during operation of the product or device when sold in combination
with any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco derivatives.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM does not include the following:
         (a)   An alternative nicotine product, cigarette, cigar, or other
tobacco product, or any product regulated as a drug or device by the United
States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act; or
         (b)   Any component, part or accessory of such a product or device
that is used during operation of the product or device when not sold in
combination with any substance containing nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco
deliveries.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. A place where tobacco products are sold at retail,
including vending machines.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any person, firm, association, company, partnership, or
corporation or agent or employee of same who operates a store, stand, booth,
concession or other place at which tobacco sales are made to purchasers.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON as defined and applied herein must be an individual 18 years
or older.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product containing nicotine that in whole or in part
is intended to be burned, heated, chewed or otherwise ingested or absorbed into
the body, including without limitation:
      (1)   Cigarettes;
      (2)   Cigars;
      (3)   Cheroots;
      (4)   Stogies;
      (5)   Periques;
      (6)   Granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking
tobacco;
      (7)   Snuff, snuff flour, Cavendish, plus and twist tobacco, fine cut and
other chewing tobacco;
      (8)   Shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of
tobacco; and
      (9)   Anything containing tobacco or any other kinds and forms to tobacco
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for either chewing, smoking in a
pipe, chewing and smoking, or inhaling and snorting through the nose.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any device or machine requiring the deposit of money or
other things of value, including any such device or machine activated or
operated by the vendor or by an employee or agent of the vendor.
   VENDOR-ASSISTED ACCESS. Access to tobacco or tobacco products only with the
direct assistance of the vendor or a vendor employee or agent, so that
customers do not have direct access to take possession of tobacco or tobacco
products without direct assistance from the vendor or a vendor employee or
agent.
(Ord. 999, passed 7-18-06; Am. Ord. 1446, passed 2-1-22)
§ 119.03 CERTAIN FORMS OF DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell alternative nicotine products,
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems or other tobacco products in
any form except original factory-wrapped packages. The sale of single
cigarettes is specifically prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to give away, hand
out, or otherwise distribute free samples of alternative nicotine products,
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems or other tobacco products, or
coupons that can be redeemed for free samples of such products or systems, on
public property or property that is open to the general public within the
city’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to commingle tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, or electronic nicotine delivery systems with any other
product for sale from a single vending machine.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Sell, permit to be sold, or offer for sale tobacco or tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or electronic nicotine delivery
systems by means other than vendor-assisted access; or
         (b)   Display tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
electronic nicotine delivery systems in a manner allowing customers access to
such products or systems without vendor assistance.
      (2)   The requirements of this division (D) shall not apply to a separate
tobacco specialty store or cigar shop in which no one under the age of 21 years
is allowed to enter (with the limited exception provided in §
133.05) and which bears a sign to that effect.
   (E)   Cigarettes, other tobacco products, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, or alternative nicotine products may be dispensed from a vending
machine or similar device when such machine or device is located in an area,
office, business, plant, or factory which is not open to the general public or
on the licensed premises of any establishment having a license issued under the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises when such machine or device is located in the same room in which
the alcoholic liquor is dispensed.
(Ord. 999, passed 7-18-06; Am. Ord. 1446, passed 2-1-22) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Unless a penalty is otherwise provided in applicable state statute or in
another chapter or section of this code with respect to a particular violation,
any person, firm or entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter,
including but not limited to any neglect or refusal to comply therewith or
opposition to the enforcement thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall upon conviction thereof be subject to: for a first offense violation, a
fine in any amount not in excess of $500 at the discretion of the court; and
for a second offense violation, a fine in any amount not in excess of $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than six months, or both. Each day on which a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation and offense hereunder.
(Ord. 999, passed 7-18-06)
CHAPTER 120: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
Small Wireless Facilities
   
120.01   Findings and purpose
   
120.02   Definitions
   
120.03   Applicability
   
120.04   Permit required
   
120.05   Application
   
120.06   Fees and costs
   
120.07   Interface, removal, and abandonment
   
120.08   Indemnification
   
120.09   Insurance
   
120.10   Permittee duties
   
120.11   Location and aesthetic standards
   
120.12   Make-ready work
   
120.13   Assignment
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 120.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is necessary to specify requirements
for the orderly, safe, and aesthetic deployment of small wireless facilities by
telecommunications companies in the city.
   (B)   The city owns and maintains public rights-of-way principally for use
by the city and its residents for public purposes.
   (C)   City rights-of-way are a finite resource and are subject to requests
for use by others, including companies seeking use of rights-of-way in
connection with small wireless facilities; such uses or activities can
jeopardize or interfere with public health, safety, welfare, or use of rights-
of-way by the city or its residents, and adversely affect aesthetics within the
city.
   (D)   (1)   It is necessary to regulate such uses of rights-of-way in the
city to ensure they are conducted in a fair, safe, and orderly manner that does
not jeopardize or interfere with public health, safety, welfare, or uses of
rights-of-way by the city or its residents, and to minimize potential adverse
impacts on aesthetics within the city.
      (2)   The city, in the interests of protecting public health, safety, and
welfare, determines that it is appropriate to adopt rules and regulations
governing small wireless facilities on or within public rights-of-way. The city
(through zoning) also has authority to regulate uses of properties other than
public rights-of-way in connection with small wireless facilities.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
defined terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, and their derivations shall have
the meaning given in this section or Neb. RS 86-1201 et seq., known as the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The purpose of these provisions is to
promote consistency and precision in the interpretation of this chapter.
   ACTION or TO ACT. The city’s grant of an application or issuance of a
written decision denying an application.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Any uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing,
or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
federal, state or local law and to the extent such codes have been adopted by
the city and are generally applicable in the city.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to the city:
      (1)   For a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing
utility pole or support structure; or
      (2)   For a permit for approval for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole or support structure to support the installation
of a small wireless facility.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of an authority.
   AUTHORIZATION. Any approval that the city must issue under this chapter,
applicable codes, or laws prior to the deployment of a small wireless facility,
along with any associated antenna equipment and support structure, including,
but not limited to, zoning approval, building permit, and/or permit under this
chapter.
   CANTENNA. A cylindrical shaped antenna installed at the top of a pole.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a support structure or
utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the installation of a
new utility pole or new support structure in the right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5), as such section existed on January 1, 2019; a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019; a provider of information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24), as such section existed on January 1, 2019; or a wireless
services provider to provide communications services including: cable service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(8), as such section existed on January 1, 2019; an
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as such section existed on
January 1, 2019; wireless services; or other one-way or two-way communications
service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522, as such
section existed on January 1, 2019; an information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1, 2019; a telecommunications
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1,
2019; or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such sections
existed on January 1, 2019. Communications service provider includes a wireless
provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes.
   DEPLOYMENT. Placement, construction, or modification of a small wireless
facility.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge, to be collected upon application.
   GROUND MOUNTED EQUIPMENT. Equipment installed, affixed, placed, or situated
at or below grade level, including without limitation equipment located at or
below grade adjacent to sidewalks, drive aisles or streets, and distinct from
equipment mounted on existing above-ground infrastructure having a primary
purpose unrelated to small wireless facilities, such as utility poles.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a (i) - (v)
of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C, as such regulation existed
on January 1, 2019; or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law
if such designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules or regulations as
adopted or amended from time to time, including without limitation, applicable
provisions of Neb. RS 86-1201 et seq., known as the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act.
   MAKE-READY WORK. All work, as reasonably determined by the city, required to
accommodate a small wireless facility on a utility pole, and to comply with all
the city's applicable codes. Such work includes, but is not limited to,
modification or replacement of utility poles or lines, installation of guys and
anchors, rearrangement of existing equipment, inspections, reasonable
consultant fees or expenses, permitting work, design, planning, construction,
materials, cost of removal (less any salvage value), tree trimming (other than
tree trimming performed for normal maintenance purposes), facility
construction, or conduit system clearing, but does not include ordinary
maintenance.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. Any small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in
height, and with any exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Routine maintenance and/or repairs that
maintain functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a facility
and do not increase the usefulness or life of the facility.
   PERMIT. A written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format required
by the city, to perform an action, initiate, continue, or complete installation
of a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or an existing support
structure; or to install, modify, or replace a utility pole or support
structure to support installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERMITTEE. An applicant that has received a permit under this chapter, and
its successors and assignees.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an association, a trust, or any other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. Public power supplier includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge, collected on a regular basis such as annually.
   REPLACE or REPLACEMENT. In connection with an existing utility pole or
support structure, to replace (or the replacement of) the same with a new pole
or structure, substantially similar in design, size and scale to the existing
pole or structure and in conformance with this chapter and any other applicable
codes, in order to address limitations of the existing pole or structure to
structurally support collocation of a small wireless facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement, or similar property, but
not including a freeway as defined in Neb. RS 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative, or an electric membership
association that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class, or city of the first class.
   SHOT CLOCK. The period of time in which the city is required to act on an
application.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE ZONE. An area at a street intersection in which nothing shall
be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to
materially impede vision between a height of two-and-a-half feet and ten feet
above the grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets,
measured from the point of intersection of the centerline of the streets, 60
feet in each direction along the centerline of the streets. At the intersection
of major or other arterial streets, the 60 foot distance shall be increased to
90 feet for each arterial leg of the intersection.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Any wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including
the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures;
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17, as such regulation existed on January 1,2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. 1
1307(b), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure such as a guyed or self-supporting tower,
billboard, building, or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. SUPPORT
STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a material reduction in the functionality
of the small wireless facility.
   UTILITY POLE or POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for
wireline communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures
for traffic control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include:
      (1)   Support structures;
      (2)   Any transmission infrastructure owned or operated by a public power
supplier or rural public power supplier; and
      (3)   Any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or operated
by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular power supply, and small back-up battery, regardless of technological
configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within the equipment
which is collocated;
         (b)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, a particular antenna; or
         (c)   A wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the State of Nebraska, when acting to
build or install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, or support structures, but that is not a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless infrastructure
provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of wi-fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all deployments of small wireless facilities
on rights-of-way within the city and its two mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction, as amended or annexed from time to time, except as specifically
excluded in this section or in this subchapter. With respect to deployments on
rights-of-way which are owned by another jurisdiction, the city shall
coordinate its regulation under this subchapter with such jurisdiction, by
agreement or otherwise, so that only one of the jurisdictions regulates the
same. This subchapter shall not apply to any facility that was in existence and
authorized by an agreement with the city as of the effective date of this
subchapter. Notwithstanding this section, the shot clock for an application
shall be governed by this subchapter or by an existing agreement, whichever
provides for a shorter shot clock. Notwithstanding this section, application
fees and yearly rates shall be governed by this subchapter or by an existing
agreement, whichever provides for smaller fees or rates. Small wireless
facilities shall be governed by this subchapter, and not by other lease
requirements of the city or this code. This chapter shall not apply to the
design, engineering, construction, installation, or operation of any small
wireless facility located in the interior structure or upon the site of any
college or university campus, stadium, or athletic facility not owned or
controlled by the city, other than to comply with applicable codes, laws, or as
otherwise agreed by the person or entity owning or controlling the college or
university campus, stadium, or athletic facility. For an application submitted
to the State of Nebraska regarding a location within right-of-way or other
property owned or controlled by the state, to the extent that the state seeks a
recommendation from the city regarding such application, the city shall apply
the location and design standards of §
120.11. The applicant for a location on such state right-of-way or other
property shall provide to the city a copy of the application submitted to the
state. The city shall not require an application, permit, or other approval or
charge fees or rates for: ordinary maintenance of small wireless facilities;
replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless facilities that
are substantially similar in weight or windage or the same size or smaller; or
for the installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement of
microwireless facilities that are strung on cables between existing utility
poles in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, the city requires a permit for all other
work, and for any work that requires excavation or closing of sidewalks or any
vehicular lanes within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, maintain, or operate a small
wireless facility, unless such person shall have previously obtained a permit
under this chapter from the city expressly authorizing such small wireless
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to collocate a small wireless
facility on or associated with an existing utility pole or support structure,
unless such person shall have previously obtained a permit under this
subchapter from the city expressly authorizing the attachment or association of
that specific small wireless facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, install, replace, maintain, or operate a new utility pole or support
structure to which will be attached or associated a small wireless facility,
unless such person shall have previously obtained a permit under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form and content. Application for a permit under this subchapter shall
be filed with the Planning Department, on a form provided by that Department.
On or in addition to that form, an application shall include the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
application;
      (3)   A description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of
the proposed small wireless facility;
      (4)   If applicable, written authorization from the owner of the utility
pole or support structure on which the small wireless facility will be placed
or attached, if not the city. For a utility pole or support structure owned or
controlled by the Omaha Public Power District or other owner, the applicant
shall provide proof of approval of the specific plans by that District or the
owner;
      (5)   Detailed construction drawings regarding the proposed small
wireless facility, and any associated equipment and utility pole or support
structure. The drawings shall show the location, dimensions, elevations,
equipment specifications, and attachment methods for the small wireless
facility, all equipment, and the utility pole or support structure;
      (6)   To the extent the proposed small wireless facility involves
collocation on a utility pole or support structure, a structural report
performed by a duly licensed engineer evidencing that the pole or support
structure will structurally support the collocation (or proposed modifications
to the pole or support structure to meet structural requirements) in accordance
with applicable codes;
      (7)   For any new above ground antenna or other equipment, a conceptual
rendering of the said equipment, including accurate visual depictions and
locations, if not included in the construction drawings;
      (8)   A full description of any proposed make-ready work to be performed
in preparation for the proposed installation and use of the small wireless
facility, associated equipment and utility pole or support structure;
      (9)   The application fee as required by this chapter;
      (10)   Bond and certificate of insurance as required by this chapter; and
      (11)   The application shall include:
         (a)   Language providing for the indemnification of the city by the
applicant as required by this subchapter; and
         (b)   An attestation by the applicant that the small wireless facility
shall be operational for use by a wireless services provider within nine months
after the later of the completion of all make-ready work or the permit issuance
date, unless a delay is caused by lack of commercial power or communications
transport facilities to the site, in which case the deadline shall be extended
for a period of up to nine months, equal to the period of the delay.
         (c)   The applicant's signature on and submittal of the application
shall constitute agreement to divisions (a) and (b) above.
   (B)   Batching.
      (1)   An applicant may apply for more than one but no more than five
small wireless facilities in a single application, provided that all
information required by this section is provided for each separate small
wireless facility. Application fees shall be paid for each small wireless
facility, as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Each small wireless facility within a consolidated application is
subject to individual review, except that the denial of one or more small
wireless facilities in a consolidated application shall not delay processing of
any other small wireless facilities in the same application or be a basis upon
which to deny the consolidated application as a whole. If an applicant applies
to construct or collocate several small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of the city, the city shall:
         (a)   Allow the applicant, at the applicant's discretion, to file a
single set of documents that apply to all of the applicant's small wireless
facilities; and
         (b)   Render a decision regarding all of the applicant's small
wireless facilities in a single administrative proceeding.
   (C)   Replacement or modification. A permittee shall be required to file an
application and pay an application fee for the proposed replacement or
modification of an existing small wireless facility, antenna equipment, or
associated utility pole or support structure. In such case, the application
shall include updated drawings of the facilities showing such replacement or
modification. Such proposed replacement or modification shall be reviewed and
acted upon by the city as if it were an initial application. This division (C)
does not apply, and no permit, application, or fee will be required, with
respect to the replacement of a small wireless facility with a small wireless
facility that is substantially similar in weight or windage or the same size or
smaller, unless excavation or closing of sidewalks or any vehicular lanes
within the right-of-way is required.
   (D)   Shot clock. The city shall act on a filed application, and all
associated requests, on or before the expiration of the shot clock period.
      (1)   The shot clock period for an application is the sum of:
         (a)   Ninety (90) days, plus an additional ten business days if
requested in writing by the city prior to the expiration of the 90 days; plus
         (b)   Such additional number of days of the tolling period, if any,
pursuant to division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   Unless a written agreement between the applicant and the city
provides otherwise, the tolling period for an application, if any, is as set
forth below:
         (a)   If the city notifies the applicant in writing on or before the
twentieth day after submission that the application is incomplete, and
specifically identifies the missing documents or information, the shot clock
date calculation shall restart at zero on the date on which the applicant
submits all the documents and information identified by the city to render the
application complete.
         (b)   Subsequent findings of incompleteness shall further toll the
shot clock from the time the city sends written notice of incompleteness until
the time the applicant provides the missing information.
         (c)   If the applicant submits new or additional documents or
information that include material changes not otherwise required by the city, a
new application and application fee shall be submitted, which will restart the
shot clock at zero.
      (3)   The shot clock deadline for an application is determined by
counting forward, beginning on the day after the date when the application or
any missing or additional information or documents, as the case may be, is
submitted, by the number of calendar days of the shot clock period identified
pursuant to this division (D); provided, that if the deadline calculated in
this manner falls on a weekend or holiday, the deadline shall be the next
business day after such date. The term BUSINESS DAY means any day that is not a
weekend day or holiday.
   (E)   Permit issuance. Approval of an application authorizes the permittee
to deploy, maintain and operate the small wireless facilities and any
associated utility pole covered by the permit for a period of five years in
accordance with this subchapter, subject to applicable relocation requirements
and the permittee’s right to terminate at any time. At the end of each such
term, such permit shall be considered automatically renewed for an equivalent
duration so long as the permittee is in compliance with applicable
requirements. Application review and permit issuance shall be conducted
administratively by the City Administrator or the City Administrator’s
designee.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.06 FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Application fees.
      (1)   An application for a permit under this subchapter for the
collocation of a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or support
structure shall be accompanied by an application fee in the amount of $500 for
up to five small wireless facilities on the same application.
      (2)   An application for a permit for a new, modified, or replacement
utility pole or support structure intended to support one or more small
wireless facilities, and for one small wireless facility to be placed on such
pole or structure, shall be accompanied by an additional application fee of
$250.
   (B)   Annual fees.
      (1)   A permittee who is charged city occupation taxes under Neb. RS 86-
704 shall pay such occupation taxes and shall not be charged any additional
amount for use of the right-of-way.
      (2)   A permittee who does not pay the city occupation taxes under Neb.
RS 86-704 shall pay to the city an annual rate of $250 for each small wireless
facility each year, or any applicable occupation taxes from time to time
specified by city ordinance under Neb. RS 16-205.
      (3)   For collocations of small wireless facilities on city poles in the
city right-of-way, the permittee will pay city $20 per pole per year.
      (4)   The annual amounts described in division (B)(2) or(3) above shall
be determined on a calendar year basis and paid on or before January 1 of the
calendar year to which they relate.
   (C)   Costs. In addition to fees specified in this section, the applicant or
permittee shall be liable for and pay all costs and expenses specified by §§
120.01 et seq., or otherwise incurred in connection with facilities, poles,
equipment, or actions of the applicant or permittee, including without
limitation, the obligation of the applicant or permittee to reimburse to the
city the actual cost of repair as provided in §
120.10.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.07 INTERFACE, REMOVAL, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   In the event that any facility of a permittee on city right-of-way or
city property obstructs or hinders travel or public safety or obstructs or
interferes with the legal use of such right-of-way or property by the city,
utilities or other authorized users, as determined at the sole discretion of
the City Engineer or any designee of the City Engineer ("City Engineer"), the
city may provide written notice to the permittee of such interference,
obstruction, or hindrance and of the need to resolve such interference,
obstruction, or hindrance. Not in limitation of the immediately preceding
sentence, in the event that any such facility of the permittee causes any radio
frequency interference to any city facilities or other uses of city right-of-
way or city property, the city may notify the permittee in writing of such
interference and the need to resolve such interference. Upon service of any
notice under this division, the permittee shall remedy such interference,
obstruction, or hindrance within 90 days or, in the case of an emergency,
within such shorter time period as directed by the city. If such interference,
obstruction, or hindrance is not resolved in a timely manner, the permittee
shall, at its own expense, remove its facilities from that location and restore
the location to a condition equal to or better than the condition before
construction or installation of the facilities. In such case, the permittee may
apply for the relocation of similar facilities at another location satisfactory
to the City Engineer, without payment of an application fee.
   (B)   Within 90 days following written notice from the city, the permittee
shall own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently disconnect,
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any of its facilities,
whenever the city has determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration is necessary for the construction, repair,
maintenance or installation of any city improvement in, under or upon the
public right-of-way. The permittee shall be responsible to the city for any
damages or penalties the city may incur as a result of the permittee's failure
to remove or relocate the facilities as required in this division.
   (C)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any facility
of the permittee located within the public right-of-way or on city property, as
the city may determine in its sole discretion to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public emergency, and the permittee will pay the
cost. If circumstances permit, the city shall notify the permittee and give the
permittee an opportunity to move its own facilities prior to cutting or
removing the facilities. In all cases the city shall notify the permittee after
cutting or removing the facilities as promptly as reasonably possible.
   (D)   The permittee may cease using its facilities at a location. The
permittee shall notify the city of its intent to cease using any facility at
the time the decision is made, but in no case shall such notification be made
later than 30 days prior to the date the use ceases. The permittee shall,
within 30 days of such notice, remove its facilities at the permittee’s own
expense, unless the city determines and states in writing, in its sole
discretion, that any part of the facilities may be abandoned in place. The
permittee shall remain solely responsible and liable for all of its facilities
until they are removed from the public right-of-way unless the city agrees in
writing to take ownership of the abandoned facilities. For the purpose of this
division, abandonment of facilities and cancellation of the related permit
shall be deemed to have occurred after such facilities are not used for a
period of 90 days.
   (E)   If the permittee fails to timely protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its facilities
or remove any of its abandoned or unused facilities or otherwise take any
action as required in this section, the city or its contractor may do so. In
such case, the permittee shall pay all costs related to such work.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.08 INDEMNIFICATION.
   In submitting an application and maintaining and operating its facilities,
the permittee agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city, and all
officers, officials, employees, and agents of the city, and each of them, from
and against all claims, causes of action, costs, damages, demands, suits,
judgments, and expenses, including without limitation court costs, costs of
defense, and attorney fees, arising out of or resulting from, in whole or in
part, any acts or omissions of permittee or any owner, director, officer,
manager, partner, employee, contractor, agent, successor or assign of permittee
(each referred to as “affiliated party”) in connection with a permit, this
chapter, use of city rights-of-way, or the installation, construction,
operation, maintenance, replacement, modification, or repair of facilities,
whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or
prohibited by the permit or this subchapter. Execution and submission of an
application by the applicant shall be deemed to constitute an agreement to the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.09 INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon and after application, the permittee, at permittee’s cost
and expense, shall obtain and maintain during the term of the permit and
completion of all work on city property, the type and amount of insurance as
specified by the City Engineer in accordance with city policies at the time an
application is submitted, and at a minimum including the following:
         (a)   Commercial general liability ("CGL”) with a limit of $1,000,000
per occurrence for bodily injury (including death) and property damage
liability and $5,000,000 general aggregate including products/completed
operations and explosion, collapse and underground hazards, and completed
operations and waiver of subrogation in favor of the city;
         (b)   Commercial automobile liability insurance with limits of
$1,000,000 combined single limit ("CSL”) each accident for bodily injury and
property damage covering all owned, hired, and non-owned motor vehicles; and
         (c)   Workers' compensation insurance in compliance with the statutory
requirements of the state(s) of operation and employer’s liability with a limit
of $500,000, each accident/disease/policy limit.
      (2)   On all such policies and certificates of insurance other than
workers compensation and employers liability coverages, permittee shall cause
city to be included as an additional insured on such coverages on a primary and
non-contributory basis for the duration of the permit and completion of all
work on city property, and shall waive subrogation of claims against the city
as an additional insured. All such policies and certificates of insurance shall
be issued by companies authorized to do business in the State of Nebraska. A
certificate of insurance shall be filed with the City Clerk's office prior to
commencement of any construction or installation or other work or activity
under a permit.
   (B)   Upon and after application, the permittee of a permit located on a
right-of-way or other city property shall provide and maintain in effect a bond
with a surety, in favor of the city, in the minimum amount of $50,000, to cover
all permitted sites of the permittee. The exact amount of the surety bond is to
be determined by the City Engineer based upon factors, including without
limitation, the number of locations and volume of work. The surety of the bond
shall be a surety company licensed to do business in Nebraska. The bond shall
be conditioned:
      (1)   That the permittee and its successors or assigns shall indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the city and city officers, officials, employees, and
agents as set forth in §
120.08;
      (2)   For the maintenance of the sidewalk or public right-of-way;
      (3)   For the compliance with the permit, this subchapter, and all
applicable laws regarding the permitted facilities and the use of the city
right-of-way or other property; and
      (4)   For the return of the sidewalk, street, right of way or other
public property to equal or better condition as existing prior to commencement
of any work pursuant to the permit.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.10 PERMITTEE DUTIES.
   As a condition of the issuance of a permit under this chapter, the permittee
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Small wireless facilities and associated communications facilities,
utility poles and support structures shall be located, installed and maintained
so that they do not endanger the lives, health or safety of persons, or
interfere with any public improvements the city or other governmental entities
(including any traffic control devices or signs, gas, electric, storm water,
sanitary sewer or water utilities or enterprises) now or hereafter have in
place or may deem proper to make. The location, installation or maintenance of
the small wireless facility and associated communications facilities, utility
pole and support structure shall not hinder or obstruct the usual travel or
public safety on right-of-way, or obstruct the legal use of right-of-way by
utilities or the safe operation of their systems or provision of service.
   (B)   All construction, excavation, maintenance and repair work done by the
permittee shall be done in a safe, workmanlike and expeditious manner which
minimizes inconvenience and danger to the city, the general public and
individuals. All such construction, excavation, maintenance and repair work
done by the permittee shall comply with all applicable codes and laws. The city
shall have the right to inspect all construction or excavation work to ensure
compliance with applicable codes, laws, and permits, and may order the
permittee to perform corrective work. All right-of-way or other city property
disturbed by permittees' activities shall be promptly restored by the permittee
at its expense to its former condition, subject to inspection by the city. If
the permittee fails to make or perform required repairs, correction, or
restoration, the city may give the permittee written notice of the required
work. If after such notice the permittee fails to do the required work within
14 days, the city may do the work, and the permittee shall pay the city the
reasonable cost of such work. The city shall grant the permittee a ten day
extension to perform work if requested by the permittee within the original 14
day period. In the event of immediate threat to life, safety, or to prevent
serious injury, the city may immediately undertake to do the work and then
notify the permittee and charge the permittee for all applicable costs.
   (C)   All small wireless facilities and associated communications
facilities, utility poles, support structures, improvements, and work shall be
installed, constructed, maintained, operated, modified, repaired, replaced, and
carried out in a safe, workmanlike, and expeditious manner, in accordance with
all applicable law, and providing reasonable protection against injury or
damage to any and all persons or property.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the permittee shall erect a
barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and provide appropriate traffic
control and other devices, signs, lights, and precautions to protect, warn and
guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone or as
otherwise appropriate in connection with permitted work or improvements. The
manner and use of any traffic control devices, signs, lights, or precautions
shall be described within a traffic control plan in accordance with the Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The permittee shall maintain all barriers
and other traffic control and safety devices related to an open excavation
until the excavation is filled and finished to the satisfaction of the city, or
as otherwise directed by the city.
   (E)   All construction and use of the small wireless facilities and
associated communication facilities, utility poles, and support structures
shall comply with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. Upon
completion of installation of the small wireless facilities and associated
communication facilities, utility poles and support structures, the permittee
shall notify the Planning Department within three business days of the
completion of said work so that the city may conduct an inspection as provided
for above. Any construction that does not conform to the permit and approved
final plans and specifications, or applicable law, shall be reconstructed or
repaired to conform to such requirements within five business days. If
permittee fails to satisfy such requirements within five business days, the
city may revoke the associated permit.
   (F)   If a new utility pole or support structure is to be built or installed
for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a small wireless facility, such
pole or structure shall comply with all applicable codes and law.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.11 LOCATION AND AESTHETIC STANDARDS.
   The city desires to promote aesthetically acceptable and area conforming
wireless facilities. Wireless facilities deployed in the city shall use
equipment and techniques that minimize visibility and perceptibility of small
wireless facilities to the greatest extent feasible, including without
limitation, using the smallest and least intrusive equipment, shapes, colors,
placements, and other camouflaging techniques available with respect to small
wireless facilities. All facilities in the public right-of-way must comply with
all applicable provisions in this section.
   (A)   All small wireless facilities shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Concealment elements must be incorporated into the proposed design
of the small wireless facility installation and must include approved
camouflaging or shrouding techniques;
      (2)   Antennas must be top-mounted and concealed within a radome (a
structural, weatherproof enclosure that protects an antenna and is constructed
of material that minimally attenuates the signal transmitted/received by such
antenna) or otherwise concealed to the greatest extent technically feasible.
Cable connections, antenna mounts and other hardware must also be concealed.
The radome or other concealment elements must be non-reflective and painted or
otherwise colored the same as the existing support structure;
      (3)   The antenna shall be no more than three cubic feet in volume. All
other equipment associated with a small wireless facility, whether
groundmounted or pole-mounted, together, shall be no more than 28 cubic feet in
volume. The antenna and related equipment must be the smallest size technically
feasible with substantially the same performance as larger alternatives;
      (4)   The color of the small wireless facility shall be the same as the
color of the utility pole or support structure upon which it is attached;
      (5)   There shall be no advertising or signs on the small wireless
facility, except for equipment logos, specifications, or maintenance
instructions that are generally not readable from the ground or from ten feet
away, and except for signage required by the FCC;
      (6)   A small wireless facility shall be mounted at a height no more than
the greater of:
         (a)   Fifty (50) feet, including the antenna; or
         (b)   Five feet above an existing utility pole in place as of the
effective date of this chapter and located within 500 feet in the same right-
of-way;
      (7)   Cantennas shall be no more than 12 inches in diameter and 48 inches
in height;
      (8)   If the antenna of the small wireless facility is side-mounted, it
shall not protrude more than 18 inches beyond the side of the pole, and shall
not extend beyond the height of the pole;
      (9)   Collocations between wireless service providers on the same support
structure is required wherever technically feasible. If an applicant proposes
not to collocate in areas where options are or appear to be available, the
applicant must document why the collocation is infeasible;
      (10)   Cabling shall be located within conduit or inside the pole or
support structure to as great a degree as possible, and otherwise shall be as
flush to the pole or support structure as possible. Any support arms shall use
flanges or channels to conceal exterior cables and passive radio frequency
gear. Shrouds, sleeves, or 90 degree connectors shall be used to prevent
exposed cables;
      (11)   When facilities are permitted to be pole-mounted, facilities other
than the antenna(s), electric meter and disconnect switch must be concealed
within an equipment shroud. The facilities must be installed at a height that
presents the least aesthetic impact, but in no event lower than 20 feet above
ground level, except for the disconnect switch. The equipment shroud must be
non-reflective and painted, wrapped or otherwise colored to match the support
structure. Shrouds must be mounted flush to the support where feasible.
Standoff mounts must provide the minimum separation distance from the support
structure necessary for feasibility;
      (12)   A small wireless facility shall include a disconnect switch. The
disconnect switch shall be no more than 12 cubic inches in size, shall be
painted the same color as the pole or support structure, and shall be mounted
on the pole or support structure at a maximum of six feet above grade, unless
otherwise directed by the city Chief Building Official;
      (13)   Unless otherwise required by the city, or for compliance with FAA
or FCC regulations, small wireless facilities shall not include any lights or
lighting;
      (14)   The city may request technically feasible alternative locations
for the collocation of small wireless facilities pursuant to Neb. RS 86-1237(5)
(d) of the Act, and the applicant will cooperate with the city to address the
city's request. If an applicant reasonably believes an alternative location is
infeasible, it must document to the city the basis for the applicant’s belief;
      (15)   By publication of this subchapter, all applicants are notified
that the city desires to reserve space on authority poles in the city for such
uses or purposes from time to time as determined in the sole discretion of the
City Administrator or any designee of the City Administrator. Not in limitation
of the foregoing, all wireless facilities located or collocated on a city-owned
pole on which a decorative banner may be placed, or located or collocated on
any other pole in city right-of-way on which city has the right to place a
decorative banner, must be placed above the banner or place designated by the
city for a banner for that specific pole;
      (16)   All wireless facilities located or collocated on city-owned or
other poles in right-of-way must be placed on the backside of the pole, facing
away from the nearest street;
      (17)   If decorative street lights and poles have been installed in a
neighborhood or district, small wireless facilities shall only be installed at
intersections as combination poles designed for mounting street lights and
small wireless facilities and matching the decorative street lights and poles.
The purpose of this is to eliminate the removal of decorative street lights
mid-block and to preserve the intended decorative aesthetics of the
neighborhood or district;
      (18)   If wireless equipment for both 4G and 5G technology is to be
collocated on the same pole, the city requires a cantenna for the 4G equipment
where technically feasible, and a maximum of three antennas per pole aside from
the cantenna;
      (19)   Small wireless facilities must not be installed or strung up using
cables or wires between poles or structures when technically feasible
alternatives exist, such as collocating to a pole or mounting on the ground;
      (20)   Small wireless facilities shall not be allowed on traffic signal
systems; and
      (21)   Such other requirements as established and published by the City
Administrator from time to time, which other requirements shall be effective
with respect to applications filed on or after the publication date. For this
purpose, publication shall mean posting by the City Administrator or the City
Administrator's designee in three public places in the city, or publication by
such other method as specified by the City Administrator or City
Administrator’s designee from time to time.
   (B)   A new or replacement utility pole for a small wireless facility,
referred to in this division as a "new pole," shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The new pole shall meet the generally applicable standards for such
poles as established by the owner of such poles or applicable law.
      (2)   The new pole shall comply with applicable codes of general
applicability.
      (3)   The new pole shall be substantially similar in color, diameter,
material, style, design characteristics, and arm structure of the nearest
adjacent existing poles; provided, that there shall be no new installations of
wooden poles.
      (4)   A new decorative pole replacing an existing decorative pole shall
conform to all applicable design aesthetic features of the decorative pole
being replaced, including concealing all equipment and wiring within the
replacement pole.
      (5)   If the existing street light poles are not capable of accepting new
equipment, the provider must remove and replace those poles with a combination
pole designed for mounting street lights and small wireless facilities.
      (6)   The height of a new pole shall not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   Five feet above the tallest existing utility pole in place as of
the effective date of this chapter located within 500 feet of the new pole in
the same right of way; or
         (b)   Fifty (50) feet above ground level.
      (7)   The diameter of the new pole shall be no more than 14 inches;
provided, that the bottom 66 inches of the new pole may be no more than 18
inches in diameter.
      (8)   The new pole shall be in alignment with existing trees, utility
poles, and streetlights.
      (9)   The new pole shall be an equal distance between trees when
possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no proposed
disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree.
      (10)   The new pole shall be placed with appropriate clearance from
existing utilities, to accommodate the passage of traffic in the right of way
and any work done on or around the facilities.
      (11)   The new pole shall be placed outside of the required sight
triangle zone, where pedestrian trails, sidewalks, and streets intersect(s).
      (12)   The new pole shall be placed so as not to be located along the
frontage of a Historic District.
      (13)   The new pole shall not be placed within 50 feet of the apron of a
fire station or other emergency service responder facility.
      (14)   In accordance with existing standards for street light poles, and
provided it does not result in an effective prohibition of service, a new pole
shall be located no closer than 150 feet from an existing street light pole on
an arterial or collector street, and no closer than 100 feet from an existing
street light pole on a local or residential street. This requirement shall not
prevent the replacement of light poles in place as of the effective date of
this chapter that do not meet this spacing requirement.
      (15)   A new pole shall not be located within seven feet of an electrical
conductor unless the applicant obtains the written consent of the entity that
owns or manages the electrical conductor.
      (16)   New or existing poles, support structures, or other structures,
equipment, or facilities shall not interfere with, obstruct, or obstruct access
to or use of:
         (a)   Any existing above ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities, or public facilities;
         (b)   Any public infrastructure for traffic control, streetlight or
public transportation purposes, including without limitation any curb control
sign, vehicular traffic sign or signal, pedestrian traffic sign or signal, or
barricade reflectors;
         (c)   Any public transportation vehicles, shelters, street furniture,
or other improvements at any public transportation stop (including, without
limitation, bus stops, streetcar stops, and bike sharing stations);
         (d)   Fire hydrants or fire escapes; and
         (e)   Any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, passage doors, stoops, or
other ingress and egress points to any building appurtenant to the right-of-
way.
   (C)   All small wireless facilities, and all of their associated equipment,
ground equipment, communications facilities, and utility poles and support
structures, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   So as not to impede or impair public safety or the legal use of the
right-of-way by the traveling public, ground mounted equipment must be
installed below grade, or if installation below grade is not technically
feasible, concealed in a ground-mounted cabinet. If technically feasible, new
ground-mounted small wireless facilities must be collocated in an existing
cabinet. Ground mounted cabinets must comply with the following design
standards:
         (a)   In urban sections with curb and gutter, ground mounted equipment
shall not be located closer than four feet from the pavement or face of curb,
and shall not be located closer than two feet from a sidewalk, bike lane, or
shared-use path as measured to the nearest part of the equipment.
         (b)   In rural sections with open ditches, ground mounted equipment
shall be located at least one foot inside the right-of-way line.
         (c)   Ground mounted equipment shall be placed outside of all sight
triangle zone(s).
         (d)   Ground mounted equipment locations shall be located a minimum of
12 feet from driveway aprons as measured parallel to the right-of-way or as
determined by the City Engineer in a field sight distance inspection.
         (e)   Ground mounted equipment shall be consistent with any applicable
design standards of the Omaha Guidelines and Regulations for Driveway Location,
Design and Construction, most current edition at the time an application is
submitted.
         (f)   Ground mounted equipment must be secured to a concrete
foundation or slab with a breakaway design allowing the equipment to disconnect
from the foundation in the event of collision or impact.
         (g)   Screening of ground mounted equipment with a variety of plant
material may be required based on the characteristics of the surrounding area.
         (h)   Not in limitation of immediately preceding division (g) above,
all proposed ground mounted equipment shall comply with applicable design,
landscape, screening, or camouflaging requirements in effect when an
application is submitted, if any, including without limitation, any such
requirements based on surrounding context, colors, materials, locations,
plants, and planting plan.
      (2)   Such items shall not materially interfere with sight lines or clear
zones for air or land transportation or pedestrians.
      (3)   Such items shall not obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public
safety on right-of-way, or obstruct the legal use of right-of-way by utilities
or the safe operation of their systems or provision of service.
      (4)   Such items shall not violate or materially interfere with
compliance with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or similar
federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement.
      (5)   Such items shall comply with applicable design, landscape,
screening, or camouflaging requirements in effect when an application is
submitted, if any, including without limitation, any such requirements based on
surrounding context, colors, materials, locations, plants, and planting plan.
      (6)   Such items shall comply with applicable codes and laws of general
applicability.
   (D)   Regardless of whether or not poles, support structures, or other
infrastructure on or to which small wireless facilities will be attached are
privately or publicly owned, the requirements of this subchapter, including
without limitation, permitting and aesthetic requirements, shall apply with
respect to small wireless facilities attached on or to any poles, support
structures, or other infrastructure located within city right-of-way, except to
the extent expressly proscribed by the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.12 MAKE-READY WORK.
   (A)   In its application, the applicant shall identify any make-ready work
proposed to be performed by the city. Within 120 days after receipt of a
completed application that includes a proposal for make-ready work that the
City Engineer determines satisfactory, the city shall provide a preliminary
good faith estimate of the cost of such make-ready work to be paid by the
applicant to the city. The applicant shall accept such good faith estimate by
paying to the city the amount of the estimated cost, after which city shall
commence the make-ready work. Make-ready work to be performed by the city shall
be completed within 90 days after written acceptance of the good faith estimate
by the applicant, subject to any delays for causes beyond the control of city.
Upon the city’s completion of the make-ready work, the applicant shall pay the
city, or the city shall refund to the applicant, as the case may be, the
difference between the cost estimate paid and the actual cost. Total fees shall
not exceed actual costs of the make-ready work. Alternatively, the city and the
applicant may agree that the applicant or a party other than the city may
perform the make-ready work, subject to the city’s approval before and after
the work.
   (B)   The city may require replacement of the utility pole if the City
Engineer determines that the collocation would make the utility pole
structurally unsound. The person owning the utility pole shall not require more
make-ready work than required to meet applicable codes and industry standards.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
§ 120.13 ASSIGNMENT.
   A permittee may assign its rights to a permit, small wireless facility, and
associated equipment or structures it owns, to an assignee. Such assignment
shall not be effective until closing on the permittee’s conveyance of the small
wireless facilities and associated equipment or structures to the assignee, and
the applicant and the assignee sign and file with the Planning Department a
notice of assignment, containing:
   (A)   The assignee’s name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address,
including emergency contact information;
   (B)   Exact location of all small wireless facilities and associated
equipment or structures being assigned; and
   (C)   Assignee's assumption of all permittee's obligations under the permit,
this subchapter, and applicable law, in form and content satisfactory to the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 1393, passed 6-16-20)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
      
135.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.03   Injury to trees
   
130.04   Fire equipment; fire hose
   
130.05   Trash
   
130.06   Posted advertisements; posting
   
130.07   Window peeping
   
130.08   Littering
   
130.09   Appliances in yard
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Intentionally or recklessly damages or destroys any property of any
kind belonging to another ("property"), including but not limited to, any real
or personal, property, tomb, grave, monument, gravestone or tree, any property
located upon any government property or cemetery, or any property of
historical, local, state, or national significance;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Unless a penalty is otherwise provided in applicable state statute or
in another chapter or section of this code with respect to a particular
violation:
      (1)   Criminal mischief is a Class IV felony if the actor intentionally
or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of $5,000 or more, or a substantial
interruption or impairment of public communication, transportation, supply of
water, gas, or power, or other public service.
      (2)   Criminal mischief is a Class I misdemeanor if the actor
intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of $1,500 or more but less
than $5,000.
      (3)   Criminal mischief is a Class II misdemeanor if the actor
intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of $500 or more but less
than $1,500.
      (4)   Criminal mischief is a Class 111 misdemeanor if the actor
intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes pecuniary loss in an amount of
less than $500 or if his or her action results in no pecuniary loss, or a loss
to which a pecuniary value cannot be determined with reasonable certainty.
(Am. Ord. 1278, passed 4-5-16)
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-519
   Criminal trespass, see Neb. RS 28-520 and 28-521
§ 130.02 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the city
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any pUblic property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under Neb. RS 60-1903.01; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under Neb. RS 60-1903.01; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE: if applicable provisions
of Neb. RS 60-1901 are satisfied.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
      (2)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of such
abandonment has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$500 or less, shall immediately vest in the city. In the event the automobile
is licensed for the current year or is of a wholesale value of over $500, the
city police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner of the said
automobile within 15 calendar days by sending a notice to the registered owner,
if known; and if unknown, to make a reasonable effort to determine the owner
for purposes of such notice by sending an inquiry to the county in which it is
registered, if the car has plates; or by contacting the Department of Motor
Vehicles, if the car is without license plates. If notified by the Department
of Motor Vehicles that a lien or mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of its removal and storage. If the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee is known and does not claim the automobile within five
days after the date when the notice was mailed or upon receiving word from the
Department of Motor Vehicles that the owner is unknown, title will immediately
vest in the city and the automobile may be sold. Any proceeds from the sale of
the automobile, less any expenses incurred by the city in such sale, shall be
held without interest for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period
of two years. If not claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall
then be paid into the General Fund.
(Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903)
      (3)   For purposes of this section:
         (a)   MOBILE HOME shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 60-1901;
         (b)   PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public right-of-way, street,
highway, alley, park or other state, county or city-owned property; and
         (c)   PRIVATE PROPERTY shall mean any privately-owned property which
is not included within the definition of public property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
         (d)   TRESPASSING VEHICLE shall mean a vehicle that is parked without
permission on private property that is not typically made available for public
parking.
      (4)   Any person who causes an abandoned vehicle as hereinbefore defined
shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
('79 Code, § 6-330)
   (B)   The Police Department shall be charged with the responsibility of
enforcing the provisions of this section and Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 19
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles, within the corporate limits of the
city.
'79 Code, § 6-331)
   (C)   The Police Department shall retain for a period of at least five years
a record of all pertinent data for each abandoned vehicle disposed of and shall
make such reports to the Director of Motor Vehicles as shall be required by
law.
('79 Code, § 6-332)
   (D)   For the purposes of this section and Neb. RS 60-1902, should the
Police Department determine that an abandoned motor vehicle has a wholesale
value of $250 or less, such determination shall be supported by such of the
following as shall be appropriate:
      (1)   If the "Blue Book" wholesale value of automobiles of the same make,
model, year, equipment and general condition as said automobile is less than
$250, a statement as to said "Blue Book" value at date of pickup of the
abandoned automobile shall be entered in the file pertaining to same.
      (2)   If the "Blue Book" wholesale value is more than $250 and the Police
Department shall determine that the wholesale value is less than $250, such
determination shall be further supported by:
         (a)   A statement as to the "Blue Book" wholesale value at date of
pickup;
         (b)   Photograph or photographs showing the condition of the vehicle
at date of pickup;
         (c)   Appraisal by a licensed automobile dealer stating the value of
said automobile to be $250 or less.
('79 Code, § 6-333)
   (E)   (1)   The Police Department, pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.02, is
authorized to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private property
upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the vehicle is
located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle. After removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of
the vehicle shall follow the applicable procedures of Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-
1903.
      (2)   The Police Department, pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.02, is
authorized to contact a private towing service in order to remove an abandoned
or trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle
towed away by the private towing service under this division is subject to
applicable provisions of Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410.
      (3)   A private property owner in the city is authorized to remove or
cause the removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and
may contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the Police Department
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.02, and provide the registration plate number, the
vehicle identification number, if available, the make, model, and color of the
vehicle, and the name of the private towing service and the location, if
applicable, where the private towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle
towed away by the private towing service under this division is subject to Neb.
RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410.
(‘79 Code, § 6-333) (Ord. 172, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1122, passed 4-20-10; Am.
Ord. 1356, passed 7-2- 19; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 12-6-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 130.03 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
city to do so, and the written permit of the city in accordance with their
decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful authority on
the part of the company to do so. Public service companies receiving permission
from the city to trim or cut down trees on private property will be required to
give notice to property owners that the trimming and/or tree removal will take
place.
(‘79 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-519
Cross-reference:
   Dead or diseased trees declared a nuisance, see §
92.21
   Dead or diseased tree removal, see §
94.07
§ 130.04 FIRE EQUIPMENT; FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
City Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the equipment
and property of the Fire Department.
(‘79 Code, § 6-306)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire
Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over the unprotected
hose of the Fire Department at any time.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (‘79 Code, § 6-307)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.05 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage, or other matter
to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon.
(‘79 Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.06 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS; POSTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously
tear, deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any
person, firm or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and
lawfully posted and the same remains of value.
(‘79 Code, § 6-311)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use the
streets, sidewalks or public grounds of the city for signs, signposts, the
posting of handbills or advertisements without written permission of the city.
(‘79 Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For related provisions on the distribution of handbills, see §
111.03
§ 130.07 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(‘79 Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   The word LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. Waste material as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or water craft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or water craft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (‘79 Code, § 3-323) (Am. Ord. 631, passed 9-19-95) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 130.09 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(‘79 Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent nuisances, Neb. RS 17-207 and 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited by state law, Neb. RS 28-1321
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Open container
   
131.02   Disturbing the peace
   
131.03   Disorderly conduct
   
131.04   Disturbing an assembly
   
131.05   Parades, processions and public assemblies
   
131.06   Street games
   
131.07   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.08   Curfew
   
131.09   Loud, unnecessary noises
   
131.10   Disorderly premises or nuisance gatherings
§ 131.01 OPEN CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume, possess, or have under their
control open alcoholic beverages in the public streets, alleys, roads, highways
or upon any property owned by the city, state or other governmental subdivision
of the state, inside vehicles while upon the public streets, alleys, roads,
highways or other public property of the city, state or any governmental
subdivision of the state within the city's boundaries, or upon premises of any
theaters, dance halls, restaurants, clubs, cafes or any other place open to the
general public, except that the provisions of this section shall not apply if
the consumption, possession or control is lawful in accordance with a validly
issued liquor license or otherwise permitted in accordance with the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act.
(‘79 Code, § 6-309) (Am. Ord. 279, passed 11-18-80; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 1-17-
12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186, 53-186.01, and 60-6,211.08
§ 131.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (‘79 Code, § 6-317) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using of obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or which is otherwise indecent or disorderly conduct or
lewd or lascivious behavior.
(‘79 Code, § 6-318) (Am. Ord. 637, passed 12-19-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-228
§ 131.04 DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb, interrupt or
interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise,
by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior or indecent and shocking
behavior. Any person or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accord with state statute.
(‘79 Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-227 and 16-254
§ 131.05 PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A) Definitions. For purposes of this section PUBLIC WAY when used as a noun
shall mean any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk or other
thoroughfare, and PUBLIC PLACE when used as a noun shall mean any public way,
park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto; any public lake or
stream; and any place or business open to the use of the public in general,
open to public view or to which the public has access.
   (B)   Permit Required. No parade or procession shall be allowed upon any
street or public way, nor shall any open-air public assembly be held upon any
street, public way or other public place, in the city until a permit in writing
therefor shall be obtained from the City Clerk.
   (C)   Application for Permit. Written application for a permit in a form
prescribed by the City Clerk and required by the provisions of this section
shall be made to the City Clerk by the person in charge or control or
responsible for such parade, procession or assembly no less than 30 calendar
days prior to the date of the scheduled event. The application shall include
but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   The name and contact information of the person or organization of
the applicant.
      (2)   The purpose of the proposed activity.
      (3)   The time of starting and the proposed duration thereof.
      (4)   A reasonable estimation of the number of expected participants.
      (5)   For a parade or procession, the route along which the same is to
proceed.
   (D)   Investigation Prior to Issuance of Permit. Upon application being made
for a permit required by the provisions of this section, the Chief of Police
shall investigate the same.
   (E)   Standards for Issuance of Permit. The City Clerk shall issue a permit
as provided for under this section when, from a consideration of the
application, a recommendation of the Chief of Police and from any other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he/she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the proposed activity will not substantially
interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic to its route.
      (2)   The conduct of the proposed activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line
of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the city.
      (3)   The conduct of the proposed activity will not require the diversion
of so great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to
portions of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed activity.
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade or at the site of the proposed activity will not unduly
interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to,
areas contiguous to those assembly areas or sites.
      (5)   The conduct of the proposed activity will not interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire.
      (6)   The conduct of the proposed activity is not reasonably likely to
cause injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or to create
a disturbance.
      (7)   If a parade or procession that it is scheduled to move from its
point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without
unreasonable delays en route.
      (8)   The proposed activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of
advertising any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely
for private profit.
   (F)   Granting or Denial or Permit. The Chief of Police shall make a
recommendation upon the application for a parade/assembly permit within ten
working days after the filing thereof. If the application is not approved the
City Clerk shall mail to the applicant, within 12 working days after the date
upon which the application was filed, a notice of his/her action stating the
reasons for denial of the permit.
   (G)   Fee. The permit fee for holding a public assembly within the city
shall be such amount as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council,
and a current record of such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 6-321) (Am. Ord. 888, passed 12-17-02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see Neb. RS 16-227 and 16-254
§ 131.06 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, kick or throw
a football or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the city streets and
sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
(‘79 Code, § 6-326) (Am. Ord. 452, passed 11-17-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(‘79 Code, § 6-327) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.08 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys or parks of the city or other places of public amusement or recreation
therein after the hour of 10:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m., seven
days per week.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or any adult person
having the legal care, custody or control of any minor under the age of 18
years to allow or permit such minor to loiter, wander, stroll, idle or play in
or about any of the places designated in division (A) of this section after the
hour of 10:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m., seven days per week.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) that the
minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
legal care, custody or control of such minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent, guardian or
other adult person having the legal care, custody or control of such minor and
was using a direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, including but not limited to
newspaper delivery and was using a direct route;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police officer about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
      (8)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the laws of the state of Nebraska.
(‘79 Code, § 6-334) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   (A)   Findings. It is found and declared that:
      (1)   The making, creation or maintenance of noises or sounds that are
unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance are a detriment
to the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of
the residents of this city.
      (2)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
this city.
(79 Code, § 6-338)
   (B)   Unlawful to make, continue. It shall be unlawful for any person to
create, assist in creating, permit, cause, continue or permit the continuance
of any sound or noise that is unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing
or a nuisance within the limits of the city. The term DISTURBING as used in
this section shall mean actual or imminent interference with peace or good
order.
(79 Code, § 6-339)
   (C)   Enumeration; exceptions.
      (1)   Enumerations. The following sounds or noises, among others, are
declared to be unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance in
violation of this code, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
         (a)   Horns, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn,
whistle or other signaling device on any automobile, truck, motorcycle or other
vehicle on any private, residential or commercial property or any public
property, including any street or public place of the city, except as a danger
warning or a signal for help; the creation by means of any such signaling
device of any sound that is unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or
a nuisance; the sounding of any such signaling device for an unreasonable
period of time; the use of any such signaling device when traffic is, for any
reason, held up; the use of any such signaling device except one operated by
hand or electricity; and, the use of any such signaling device operated by
engine exhaust.
         (b)   Radios, phonographs, stereos, bass amplifiers and musical
instruments. Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
radio, tape recorder, cassette player, compact disc (C.D.) player, musical
instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine,
apparatus or device for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of the human
voice or of any sound:
            1.   Upon residential property or within a residential
neighborhood, whether containing one or more units of multiple-family
residential dwellings or a single-family residential dwelling, and upon
property containing a hotel, motel or inn, unless the volume of such sound
shall be so controlled that:
               a.   It will not be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
from any building, structure, chamber or vehicle in which such machine,
apparatus or device is located; and
               b.   In the case of a multiple-family residential dwelling, a
hotel, motel or inn, it will not be plainly audible in any adjoining unit.
Provided, however, that actual notice from an occupant of the adjoining unit to
the occupant of the property containing the source of amplified sound shall be
a necessary element of a violation under this division.
            2.   Upon any private property that is nonresidential and that is
not located within a residential neighborhood, upon any public property,
including any public street, highway, building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare
or in or upon any motor vehicle on such private or public property, unless in
each such instance the volume of such sound shall be so controlled that it will
not be plainly audible for a distance in excess of 100 feet from the source.
         (c)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor
vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which is properly maintained
and in good working condition and which will effectively prevent any noise that
is unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance.
         (d)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird
which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort and
repose of any person or resident.
         (e)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling and singing. Yelling,
shouting, hooting, whistling and singing or making other verbal noises on the
public streets or public areas or from private property between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. so as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
from the public area or private property from which such noise emanates.
         (f)   Pile drivers, hammers, blowers, construction equipment and the
like. The operation of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist, blower, power fan or other power tools
whether air, electric or gasoline powered, unless the sound produced thereby
shall be so controlled that it is not plainly audible for a distance in excess
of 100 feet from the source; and the operation of any internal combustion
engine, unless such engine is equipped with a muffler device used and
maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
      (2)   Exemptions. The following activities are exempt from the
application of this section:
         (a)   Devices used solely for the purpose of warning, protecting or
alerting the public, or some segment thereof, of the existence of an emergency
situation;
         (b)   Construction operation for which building permits have been
issued, or construction operations not requiring permits due to ownership of
the project by an agency of the government; provided that all equipment is
operated in accordance with manufacturers' specifications and with all standard
equipment, manufacturers' mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in
proper operating condition. However, such exception shall apply only to
construction operations between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and dusk Monday through
Sunday, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety, and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector, which permit
may be granted for a period not to exceed three days while the emergency
continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three days while the
emergency continues. If the Building Inspector shall determine that the public
health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration
or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and /or Sunday, and if he or she shall further
determine that hardship would result to any party in interest if permission is
not granted, he or she may grant permission for such work to be done within the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and or on Sunday upon application being made
at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of work;
         (c)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure
relief valves and bells and chimes of churches;
         (d)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call or acting or operating within the scope of the
authority of said agency or as is necessary for the safety of the public in
time of emergency;
         (e)   Operations by city departments;
         (f)   Sound emanating from duly licensed and/or authorized athletic
contests, parades and city-sponsored public celebrations;
         (g)   Noises emanating from industrial facilities operating in
industrial zoned areas of the city, provided that such noises are incidental to
the normal operations of such facility and further provided that such facility
is operating in accordance with all city, state and federal codes, statutes,
regulations, special use permits and other enforceable orders;
         (h)   Noises of lawn care equipment in normal usage between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. if used and maintained in accordance with the
manufacturers’ specifications;
         (i)   Except as set forth in division (C)(1), motor vehicles on public
roads, but this section is not intended and shall not be construed to interfere
with the enforcement of §
70.039 or any other city, state or federal statue, regulation, ordinance, code
or like regulations of motor vehicles;
         (j)   Noises of aircraft, railroad trains, transit buses, school buses
and other publicly- owned and/or operated transportation vehicles;
         (k)   Operations by, or sanctioned by, the proper authorities (city,
state or federal) for the protection of persons or property where imminent
physical trauma or property damage demands immediate action;
         (l)   Noises emanating from an event center in accordance with a
current conditional use permit from the City of La Vista, subject to the
following conditions:
            1.   A curfew shall exist during which time no outdoor amplified
sound shall be permitted. The curfew shall have the following beginning and
ending times:
 
Day of the Week         Beginning Ending
Sunday through Thursday 10:00 pm  8:00 am the following day
Friday and Saturday     10:30 pm  8:00 am the following day
 
            2.   Amplified sound shall mean any sound, the volume of which is
increased by, or by use of, any equipment or device designed for such purpose;
and
         (m)   City, community, or other events conducted or authorized by the
city.
(‘79 Code, § 6-340) (Am. Ord. 762, passed 2-16-99; Am. Ord. 1413, passed 2-16-
21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 DISORDERLY PREMISES OR NUISANCE GATHERINGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   DISORDERLY PREMISES shall mean any real property or real property
improvements, including without limitation any room, house, building, parking
lot or any part thereof, within or upon which occurs any of the following
prohibited activities in disturbance of the public peace, health, safety or
general welfare of the city:
         (a)   Any persons engaging in disorderly conduct as defined in §
131.03;
         (b)   Noise or other sound in violation of §
131.09;
         (c)   Maintenance of any nuisance condition or activity as defined in
this code or other applicable law;
         (d)   Any persons engaging in public urination, public defecation,
lewd conduct, pandering, or prostitution;
         (e)   Any persons engaged in the dispensing, selling, or consumption
of illegal drugs or controlled substances, or in the dispensing, selling, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages in violation of Nebraska Revised Statutes,
Reissued;
         (f)   Any persons engaging in unlawful gambling activity as set forth
in Nebraska Revised Statutes, Reissued;
         (g)   Possession or use of drug paraphernalia; or
         (h)   Any other unlawful or illegal act in violation of the provisions
of this code or Nebraska Revised Statutes, Reissued.
      (2)   NUISANCE GATHERING shall mean any event, gathering or congregating
of two or more persons within or upon any vacant real property or real property
improvements, including without limitation any room, house, building, parking
lot or any part thereof, that constitutes or results in two or more of the
following prohibited activities at or as a result of the event, gathering or
congregating within or upon such property or improvements, in disturbance of
the public peace, health, safety, or general welfare of the city:
         (a)   Any persons engaging in disorderly conduct as defined in §
131.03;
         (b)   Noise or other sound in violation of §
131.09;
         (c)   Maintenance of any nuisance condition or activity as defined in
this code or other applicable law;
         (d)   Any persons engaging in public urination, public defecation,
lewd conduct, pandering, or prostitution;
         (e)   Any persons engaged in the dispensing, selling, or consumption
of illegal drugs or controlled substances, or in the dispensing, selling, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages in violation of Nebraska Revised Statutes,
Reissued;
         (f)   Any persons engaging in unlawful gambling activity as set forth
in Nebraska Revised Statutes, Reissued;
         (g)   Possession or use of drug paraphernalia; or
         (h)   Any other unlawful or illegal act in violation of the provisions
of this code or Nebraska Revised Statutes, Reissued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to host, maintain, permit, allow
to continue, attend, or be present at a disorderly premises or nuisance
gathering.
   (C)   Any person or persons who own, possess or control any real property or
real property improvements, including without limitation any room, house,
building, parking lot or any part thereof, upon or within which a disorderly
premises or nuisance gathering occurs may, jointly and severally, be charged
with violating this section if he or she hosts, sponsors, conducts, permits, or
allows to continue a disorderly premises or nuisance gathering. However, any
such person who requests assistance from City of La Vista police officers to
prevent a disorderly premises or nuisance gathering prior to the police
receiving any complaints related to the disorderly premises or nuisance
gathering shall not be in violation of this section.
   (D)   Any person or persons who are found to have violated any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each offense
and shall be subject to the penalty in §
10.99.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty sought or obtained under this section
or other applicable law, in the event of three or more convictions or guilty or
equivalent pleas under this section with respect to any real property or real
property improvements in any 18-month period, the City Attorney may institute
injunctive or other appropriate civil proceedings to obtain compliance with
this section and avoid future violations of this section, or the Director of
Community Development or Chief Building Official may revoke any certificate of
occupancy for such real property, real property improvements or part thereof.
   (F)   This section shall apply to all persons and properties within the city
and all persons and properties within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Ord. 1513, passed 4-2-24)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Resisting officer
   
132.02   Interfering with officer/city official
§ 132.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any city police officer when
such officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(‘79 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 132.02 INTERFERING WITH OFFICER/CITY OFFICIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the official duties of
any city official, employee, or agent or any public safety personnel, such as
police officers, firefighters, or rescue personnel, or with any police animal
assisting any peace officer acting pursuant to the peace officer’s official
authority.
(‘79 Code, § 6-302) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 1-15-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
133.01   Stagnant waters, weeds, and litter
   
133.02   Hitching rides
   
133.03   Use of certain toxic vapors or fumes
   
133.04   Sale of intoxicants prohibited
   
133.05   Tobacco; prohibited to persons under 21 years of age
§ 133.01 STAGNANT WATERS, WEEDS, AND LITTER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within the city's
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within the city's extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or
piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any excessive
growth of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation. EXCESSIVE GROWTH for
purposes of this section shall include without limitation, 12 inches or more in
height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city or within the city's extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited, except that grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation
may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
excessive growth of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation on any lot or piece
of ground within the city or within the city's extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter
to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense as provided by
Nebraska Statutes.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall, during the month of April of each year, publish
or cause to be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the city a general notice setting forth the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to the above general notice, upon determination
by the Chief Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer, or other proper city
representative that the owner or occupant has failed to keep such real estate
free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to
each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by
personal service, first class mail or certified mail. Such notice shall include
the information and shall be given in the manner required by §
92.17 of this Code. If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. Within five days after receipt of
such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a
hearing with the city to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by
filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the
appeal shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be
conducted by the City Administrator or any other appointed officer of the city
from time to time designated by the City Administrator, Mayor or City Council.
Notice of the hearing will be provided in the manner described in §
92.17 of this Code. The hearing officer, based on all information presented at
the hearing, shall render a decision of the appeal within five business days
after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the city may have
such work done. If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground within
five days after receipt of such notice does not request a hearing with the city
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance within the
required time, the city may have such work done. The costs and expenses of any
such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such work
is done, the city may either:
            1.   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the
lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment; or
            2.   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specified by applicable law, notice for
purposes of this section shall be deemed to be received upon deposit in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, if by first-class mail, or upon actual
receipt, if by personal service or certified mail.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Code to the contrary, at
all times thereafter until new growth of the following year, the city shall
have the right, without providing further notice to such owner, agent,
occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control of such lot or
ground, to continue cutting and/or removing from such lot or ground all litter
or excessive growth of weeds or grass or worthless vegetation.
   (G)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   LITTER includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk; and
      (2)   WEEDS includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
      (3)   WEEDS, GRASSES, and WORTHLESS VEGETATION does not include
vegetation applied or grown on a lot or piece of ground outside the corporate
limits of the city but inside the city's extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
expressly for the purpose of weed or erosion control, as determined to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
(‘79 Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 147, passed - -; Am. Ord. 450, passed 9-15-87; Am.
Ord. 547, passed 6-16-92; Am. Ord. 938, passed 8-17-04; Am. Ord. 1256, passed
7-7-15; Am. Ord. 1357, passed 7-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority; notice and hearing requirements, see Neb. RS 16-230
   Additional authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
Cross reference:
   Nuisances; definition, see §
92.15
§ 133.02 HITCHING RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found soliciting trucks,
automobiles or other vehicles to stop or slow down for the purpose of asking
for a ride or riding on the said vehicle.
(‘79 Code, § 6-329) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,157
§ 133.03 USE OF CERTAIN TOXIC VAPORS OR FUMES.
   No person shall breathe, inhale or drink any compound, liquid or chemical
containing acetate, acetone, benzene, butyl alcohol, cyclohexanone, ethyl
acetate, ethyl alcohol, ethylene dichloride, ethylene trichloride, hexane,
isopropanol, isopropyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, methyl cellosolve acetate,
methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, pentachlorophenol, petroleum
ether, toluene, toluol, trichloroathane, trichloroethylene or any other
substance for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication,
stupefaction, depression, giddiness, paralysis, inebriation, excitement or
irrational behavior or in any manner changing, distorting or disturbing the
auditory, visual, mental or nervous processes. For the purposes of this
section, any such condition so induced shall be deemed an intoxicated
condition.
(Neb. RS 28-419) (‘79 Code, § 6-336) (Ord. 93, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 SALE OF INTOXICANTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or give to any
person any compound, liquid or chemical or any other substance which will
induce an intoxicated condition as defined in §
133.03, when the seller, offerer or deliverer knows or has reason to know that
such compound is intended for use to induce such condition. Sections
133.03 and
133.04 shall not apply to the use or sale of such substances, as therein
defined, when such use or sale is administered or prescribed for medical or
dental purposes, nor shall §§
133.03 and
133.04 apply to the use or sale of alcoholic liquors.
(Neb. RS 28-420 and 28-421) (‘79 Code, § 6-337) (Ord. 93, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 133.05 TOBACCO; PROHIBITED TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to possess, smoke,
use, buy, acquire, or attempt to buy or acquire alternative nicotine products,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, or tobacco of any kind or in any form,
including but not limited to any cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or any other substance that is made in whole
or in part from the tobacco leaf in any way for inhalation, ingestion, or
placement in or into the human body (“tobacco products”); provided, however,
until January 1, 2022, it shall not be unlawful for any person who is 19 or 20
years of age or older to work in a tobacco specialty store. Unless a penalty is
otherwise provided in applicable state statute or in another chapter or section
of this code with respect to a particular violation, any person, firm, or
entity that violates any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and the penalty for a person who is convicted under this section
shall be a fine in any amount not in excess of $100 or performance of community
service not in excess of 20 hours, as evidenced by a written certificate of the
nonprofit organization for whom the service was performed, or both. Any person
so charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution and
penalty hereunder in the event he or she, prior to the initial court
appearance, files with the court a certificate of completion of a smoking or
tobacco-use cessation class to the satisfaction of the court.
(Am. Ord. 1447, passed 2-1-22)
CHAPTER 134: WEAPONS; EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
134.01   Discharge of firearms
   
134.02   Concealed weapons
   
134.03   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns, bows, and arrows
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see §§
111.15 through 115.19
§ 134.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any weapon within the city,
including but not limited to any gun or pistol, provided, however, that nothing
in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of blank cartridges at
any ceremonial event, such as a funeral salute, or at any event sanctioned by
the city involving a starter pistol.
(‘79 Code, § 6-313) (Ord. 192, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a weapon or weapons
concealed on or about his or her person such as a revolver, pistol, bowie
knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment, brass or iron knuckles,
fighting stars, nunchucks, or any other deadly weapon.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense that the defendant was engaged in
any lawful business, calling or employment at the time he or she was carrying
any weapon or weapons and the circumstances in which such person was placed at
the time were such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon or
weapons for the defense of his or her person, property or family.
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      BRASS OR IRON KNUCKLES means any instrument that consists of finger rings
or guards made of a hard substance and that is designed, made or adapted for
the purpose of inflicting serious bodily injury or death by striking a person
with a fist enclosed in the knuckles; and
      KNIFE means any dagger, dirk, knife or stiletto with a blade over 3-1/
2 inches in length or any other dangerous instrument capable of inflicting
cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds.
(‘79 Code, § 6-314) (Ord. 192, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1201 and 28-1202
§ 134.03 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS, BOWS, AND ARROWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any device that is
constructed, designed or modified to propel a projectile, including, but not
limited to, a slingshot, air gun, BB gun, bow or the like loaded with rock,
pellet, BB, arrow or other material at any time; provided that this division
(A) shall not apply to the discharge of an air gun, BB gun, bow and arrow or
similar device at an exhibition, demonstration or event pursuant to a valid
permit issued by the city.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk may grant permits allowing the discharge of air
guns, BB guns, bows and arrows or similar devices at exhibitions,
demonstrations or events specified in the permit, including demonstrations,
exhibitions and events such as, or of, shooting galleries, gun clubs,
commercial sellers of such equipment and operators of carnivals within the
city, upon finding that the applicant has satisfactorily demonstrated that:
         (a)   The exhibition, demonstration or event will be so located,
constructed and operated as to protect the health, safety and welfare of users,
participants, spectators and the general public; and
         (b)   Operation of the exhibition, demonstration or event will not
violate any law, rule or regulation of the city, state or federal government.
      (2)   The City Clerk's decision whether or not to issue a permit shall be
based on the completed permit application and accompanying information, and any
recommendation of the Chief of Police based on public health, safety and
welfare considerations.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall consider a request for a permit upon receipt
of a properly completed and filed permit application and any other required
information, and payment of any required permit fee established from time to
time by the Mayor and City Council.
      (4)   Permits shall be valid only for the premises, exhibition,
demonstration, event and duration as stated on the permit.
      (5)   The City Clerk may adopt reasonable rules, regulations and
requirements to implement the provisions of this section and prescribe the form
and content of the permit application.
      (6)   The City Clerk may suspend or revoke any permit issued under this
section upon finding that any applicant, exhibition, demonstration or event
fails to meet the requirements of this section or any rules or regulations
established by the City Clerk.
(‘79 Code, § 6-315) (Am. Ord. 1037, passed 6-5-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
135.01   Findings and intent
   
135.02   Definitions
   
135.03   Sexual predator residency restrictions, penalties and exceptions
§ 135.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders who have
committed offenses against children present a high risk to commit repeat
offenses against children, has recognized the interest and authority of cities
to restrict such persons' place of residency, and has defined statewide
parameters for such restrictions in the Nebraska Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act.
   (B)   Repeat sex offenders who prey on children are sexual perpetrators who
present an extreme threat to public safety. Where there is a high risk to
repeat such acts, such persons are extremely likely to pose a great threat to
children. The cost of sex offender victimization to society is very high.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city, and particularly its children, by creating certain areas
in and around places where children regularly congregate where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
(Ord. 992, passed 5-16-06)
§ 135.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEBRASKA STATUTES. Nebraska Revised Statutes, as amended by Legislative Bill
1199 (2006) or otherwise from time to time.
   RESIDE. To have one's residence.
   RESIDENCE. A place at which a person has established his or her home, where
he or she is habitually present, and to which when he or she departs he or she
intends to return. RESIDENCE may include more than one location and may be
mobile or transitory. Residency may be shown by, among other evidence, where a
person regularly sleeps, receives mail, or identifies as a residence on a
driver's license, voter or vehicle registration, or other documents.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for accreditation or approval prescribed by Neb. RS Chapter
79.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act, who has a high risk of recidivism as
determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013 , and who has
victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 992, passed 5-16-06)
§ 135.03 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS, PENALTIES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any person who is
a sexual predator to reside within 500 feet of a school.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of division (A) above, the
distance between a residence and school shall be measured by following a
straight line between the outer property lines of the school and residence at
their nearest point.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (D)   Exceptions. A person who is a sexual predator and residing at a
residence within 500 feet of a school does not commit a violation of this
section if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Said residence in which the person resides is a prison or a
correctional or treatment facility operated by the State of Nebraska or a
political subdivision of the state.
      (2)   The person established said residence in which the person resides
prior to the effective date of this chapter and has not moved from that
residence.
      (3)   The school that is within 500 feet of the person's residence was
established after the person's initial date of residence at that location.
(Ord. 992, passed 5-16-06)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Mechanical Code
   
150.03   Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.06   Public safety radio amplification systems
   
150.07   Conflicts
Building Permits
   
150.15   Application
   
150.16   Limitation
   
150.17   Duplicate to County Assessor
Certificates of Occupancy
   
150.30   Certificates of occupancy; exemptions
   
150.31   Issuance
   
150.32   Temporary certificate
   
150.33   Posting
Swimming Pools
   
150.45   Purpose
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Permits
   
150.48   Inspection and opening of pools
   
150.49   Design and construction requirements for private swimming pools
   
150.50   Design and construction requirements for commercial and noncommercial
swimming pools
   
150.51   Enclosure of private swimming pools
   
150.52   Life saving equipment for private swimming pools
   
150.53   Lighting of private swimming pools
   
150.54   Disinfecting of private swimming pools
   
150.55   Closing of private swimming pools
   
150.56   Setback requirements for private, commercial, and noncommercial
swimming pools
Rental Inspection Program
   
150.60   Establishment of rental inspection program
   
150.61   Findings, purpose and intent of rental inspection program
   
150.62   Scope
   
150.63   Definitions
   
150.64   Rental license
   
150.65   Rental license application requirements
   
150.66   Inspections
   
150.67   Inspection access
   
150.68   Local agent required
   
150.69   Violations, offenses, remedies and special rules
Building Inspector
   
150.70   Power and authority
   
150.71   Right of entry
   
150.72   Time of inspection
   
150.73   Appeal from decision
   
150.74   Barricades and lights
Vacant Property Registration Program
   
150.80   Establishment of vacant property registration program
   
150.81   Findings
   
150.82   Purpose and intent of the vacant property registration program
   
150.83   Definitions
   
150.84   Scope
   
150.85   Administration and enforcement
   
150.86   Registration database; registration and supplemental registration of
vacant residential buildings; duties of owners and subsequent owners;
information required; fees; civil actions; liens; owner's agent
   
150.87   Exemptions
   
150.88   Rights to prior notice and appeal
   
150.89   Inspections; citations; inspection warrants
   
150.90   Criminal violations; penalties
   
150.91   Supplemental provisions; subchapter not exclusive
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Portions of standard codes and additional requirements, rules and
regulations specified below are hereby adopted as the Building Code of the City
of La Vista for regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area and maintenance of all buildings or structures within the
jurisdiction of the City of La Vista and providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor. Provisions of the standard codes and
additional requirements, rules and regulations adopted herein shall be applied,
interpreted and construed together and consistently to the extent possible.
Unless otherwise indicated by context or otherwise, references to any table,
section or subsection shall mean the corresponding provision of the relevant
standard code.
   (B)   (1)   International Building Code provisions adopted by reference. Two
copies of certain documents in book form, being marked and designated as the
International Building Code, 2018 Edition, ("IBC") are on file in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of La Vista. With the exception of portions of §
105.2 preceding § 105.2.1, the following portions of said IBC are hereby
adopted: Chapters 1 thru 35 inclusive, and Appendices "E”, Supplementary
Accessibility Requirements, and "I", Patio Covers, ("adopted IBC provisions");
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
adopted IBC provisions, and all amendments, revisions or editions thereto on
file or hereafter placed on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of
La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out herein.
      (2)   Additional requirements, rules and regulations adopted.
         (a)   Work exempt from permit (adopted in lieu of portions of IBC §
105.2 preceding § 105.2.1). Exemptions from permit requirements of the adopted
IBC provisions shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be
done in any manner in violation of the provisions of said adopted IBC
provisions or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall
not be required for the following:
            1.   Building.
               a.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not
exceed 79 square feet.
               b.   Oil derricks.
               c.   Retaining walls which are not over four feet (1,219 mm) in
height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge or impounding Class I, II or III-A liquids.
               d.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity
does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18,925 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or
width does not exceed 2 to 1.
               e.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter
tops and similar finish work.
               f.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets
and scenery.
               g.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-
3 occupancy that are less than 24 inches deep and installed entirely above
ground.
               h.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or
agricultural purposes and not including service systems.
               i.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached
one- and two-family dwellings.
               j.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not
project more than 54 inches (1,372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not
require additional support of Group R-3 and Group U occupancies.
               k.   Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over five feet nine inches (1,753 mm) in height.
            2.   Electrical.
               a.   Repairs and maintenance. Minor repair work, including the
replacement of lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical
equipment to approved permanently installed receptacles.
               b.   Radio and television transmitting stations. Adopted IBC
provisions shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and
television transmissions, but do apply to equipment and wiring for power
supply, the installations of towers and antennas.
               c.   Temporary testing systems. A permit shall not be required
for the installation of any temporary system required for the testing or
servicing of electrical equipment or apparatus.
            3.   Gas.
               a.   Portable heating appliance.
               b.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval
of equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
            4.   Mechanical.
               a.   Portable heating appliance.
               b.   Portable ventilation equipment.
               c.   Portable cooling unit.
               d.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment regulated by adopted IBC provisions.
               e.   Replacement of any part which does not alter its approval
or make it unsafe.
               f.   Portable evaporative cooler.
               g.   Self-contained refrigeration system containing ten pounds
(5 kg) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of one horsepower (746 W)
or less.
            5.   Plumbing.
               a.   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent
pipe provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drain pipe, water, soil,
waste or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and
replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work
and a permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
               b.   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in
pipes, valves or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets,
provided such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or
rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
         (b)   Any Group "A" occupancies with alcoholic beverages (adopted in
addition to those requirements listed in adopted IBC provisions, § 903.2.1.1
through § 903.2.1.5). An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed
throughout any building with any Group "A" exceeding 1,000 square feet and
where there is liquor, wine, or beer license issued and/or where the occupants
consume alcoholic beverages.
         (c)   Criteria (adopted in addition to those requirements listed in
adopted IBC provisions, § 1601.1). The climate and geographical design criteria
for building construction in La Vista Nebraska shall be:
            1.   Ground/snow load 30 lbs psf;
            2.   Wind speed 115 mph for a three-second gust with exposure "C";
            3.   Seismic design category "B";
            4.   Weathering probability for concrete "B";
            5.   Frost line depth 42 inches;
            6.   Termites, moderate to heavy;
            7.   Decay, slight to moderate;
            8.   Winter design temperature, minus five degrees.
         (d)   Collapsible soils (adopted in addition to those requirements
listed in adopted IBC provisions, § 1804.1 through § 1804.4). Portions of the
Omaha Metro area are underlain by low unit weight soils that can collapse when
saturated. Additional studies shall be made to evaluate the presence and extent
of the collapsible soils and to assess the effects of any collapsible soils
identified at the site on the performance of the structure.
         (e)   Markings (adopted in addition to those requirements listed in
adopted IBC provisions, § 2303.4.1). Each truss shall be legibly branded,
marked, or otherwise have permanently affixed thereto the following information
located within two feet of the center of the span on the face of the bottom
chord:
            1.   Identify the company manufacturing the truss;
            2.   The design load;
            3.   The spacing of the truss.
         (f)   Vertical support requirements for decks and porches. Vertical
supports for decks and porches shall be wood posts of not less than six inches
by six inches in dimension. Underlying footings shall meet the foundation
specifications of adopted IBC provisions.
         (g)   Rain water (adopted in addition to those requirements listed in
adopted IBC provisions § 1503.5).
            1.   When roofs are sloped to drain over the edge, scuppers or
gutters and down spouts, adequately sized, pitched and supported shall be
installed to conduct rain water to ground level. Rain water shall be discharged
at least three feet away from the building foundation in a direction parallel
to the adjoining property line when the discharge point is within 20 feet of
the adjoining property line.
            2.   Exception. Structures with no sub-grade spaces.
         (h)   Permanent Wood Foundation Systems, IBC § 1807.1.4, shall be
deleted in its entirety.
         (i)   Timber Footings, IBC § 1809.12, shall be deleted in its
entirety.
   (C)   (1)   International Residential Code provisions adopted by reference.
Two copies of certain documents in book form, being marked and designated as
the International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, ("IRC") are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista. With the exception of
portions of § R105.2 preceding § R105.2.1, and §§ R305.1, R311.7.2, R311.7.8.2,
R313.1, R313.1.1, R313.2, R313.2.1, R317.1, R502.6.2, R903.4, R908.1, and
R1102.1.2, the following portions of said IRC are hereby adopted: Chapters 1
through 42, inclusive, Chapter 44, and Appendices "F”, Radon Control Methods,
"H", Patio Covers, "J", Existing Buildings and Structures, and "K“, Sound
Transmission, ("adopted IRC provisions"); and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of such adopted IRC provisions, and all
amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file or hereafter placed on file
in the Office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
      (2)   Additional requirements, rules and regulations adopted.
         (a)   Work exempt from a permit (adopted in lieu of portions of IRC §
R105.2 preceding § R105.2.1). Permits shall not be required for the following.
Exemption from the permit requirements of the adopted IRC provisions shall not
be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the adopted IRC provisions or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction.
            1.   Building.
               a.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not
exceed 79 square feet.
               b.   Retaining walls that are not over four feet (1,219 mm) in
height measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
               c.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity
does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18,927 L) and the ratio of height to diameter or
width does not exceed 2 to 1.
               d.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
countertops and similar finish work.
               e.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches
(610 mm) deep.
               f.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to a one-or
two-family dwelling.
               g.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not
project more than 54 inches (1,372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not
require additional support.
            2.   Electrical. Repairs and maintenance. A permit shall not be
required for minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently
installed receptacles.
            3.   Gas.
               a.   Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
               b.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval
of equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
               c.   Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a
fixed piping system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
            4.   Mechanical.
               a.   Portable heating appliances.
               b.   Portable ventilation appliances.
               c.   Portable cooling units.
               d.   Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or
cooling equipment regulated by the adopted IRC provisions.
               e.   Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval
of equipment or make such equipment unsafe.
               f.   Portable evaporative coolers.
               g.   Self-contained refrigeration systems containing ten pounds
(4.54 kg) or less of refrigerant or that are actuated by motors of one
horsepower (746 W) or less.
               h.   Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a
fixed piping system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
            5.   Plumbing.
               a.   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent
pipe; provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil,
waste or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and
replace the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work
and a permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in the adopted
IRC provisions.
               b.   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in
pipes, valves or fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets,
provided such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or
rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures.
         (b)   Headroom (adopted in lieu of IRC § R311.7.2). The minimum
headroom in all parts of the stairway shall not be less than six feet eight
inches (2,036 mm) measured vertically from the sloped plane adjoining the tread
nosing or from the floor surface of the landing or platform. The Building
Official shall have the authority to waive the requirements of this section
where pre-existing conditions will not allow the requirement to be met.
         (c)   Continuity (adopted in lieu of IRC § R311.7.8.4).
            1.   Handrails for stairways shall be continuous for the full
length of the flight, from a point directly above the top riser of the flight
to a point directly above the lowest riser of the flight. Handrail ends shall
be returned or shall terminate in newel posts or safety terminals. Handrails
adjacent to a wall shall have a space of not less than one and one-half inch
(38 mm) between the wall and the handrail.
            2.   Exceptions.
               a.   Handrails shall be permitted to be interrupted by a newel
post at the turn.
               b.   The use of a volute, turnout, starting easing or starting
newel shall be allowed over the lowest tread.
               c.   Handrails for stairways shall be permitted to have no more
than a four-inch (102 mm) break due to wall offsets and other ornamental
features.
         (d)   Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems (adopted in lieu of
IRC § R313.1). An automatic residential fire sprinkler system is not required
to be installed in townhouses.
         (e)   Design and installation (adopted in lieu of IRC § R313.1.1).
When a non-required automatic residential fire sprinkler is intended to be
installed within a townhouse, the system shall be designed and installed in
accordance with NFPA 13, NFPA 13D, or NFPA 13R.
         (f)   One and two family dwellings automatic fire systems (adopted in
lieu of IRC § R313.2). An automatic residential fire sprinkler system is not
required to be installed in one and two family dwellings.
         (g)   Design and installation (adopted in lieu of IRC § R313.2.1).
When an automatic residential fire sprinkler system is intended to be
installed, it shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 13, NFPA
13D, or NFPA13R.
         (h)   Location required (adopted in lieu of IRC § R317.1). Protection
from decay shall be provided in the following locations by the use of naturally
durable wood or wood that is preservative treated in accordance with AWPA U1
for the species, product, preservative and end use. Preservatives shall be
listed in Section 4 of the AWPA U1.
            1.   Wood joists or the bottom of a wood structural floor when
closer than 18 inches (456 mm) or wood girders when closer than 12 inches (305
mm) to the exposed ground in crawl spaces or unexcavated area located within
the periphery of the building foundation.
            2.   All wood framing members, sills, or plates that rest on
concrete or masonry exterior walls.
            3.   Sills and sleepers on a concrete or masonry slab that is in
direct contact with the ground unless separated from such slab by an impervious
moisture barrier.
            4.   The ends of wood girders entering exterior masonry or concrete
walls having clearances of less than 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) on tops, sides and
ends.
            5.   Wood siding, sheathing and wall framing on the exterior of a
building having a clearance of less than six inches (152 mm) from the ground.
            6.   Wood structural members supporting moisture-permeable floors
or roofs that are exposed to the weather, such as concrete or masonry slabs,
unless separated from such floors or roofs by an impervious moisture barrier.
            7.   Wood furring strips or other wood framing members attached
directly to the interior of exterior masonry walls or concrete walls below
grade except where an approved vapor retarder is applied between the wall and
the furring strips or framing members.
         (i)   Roof drainage (adopted in lieu of IRC § R903.4).
            1.   When roof sloped to drain over the edge, scuppers or gutters
and down spouts adequately sized, pitched and supported, shall be installed to
conduct rainwater to ground level. Rainwater shall be discharged at least three
feet away from the building foundation in a direction parallel to adjoining
property line.
            2.   Exception. Structures with no sub-grade spaces.
         (j)   Re-covering versus replacement (adopted in lieu of IRC §
R908.1). New roof coverings shall not be installed without first removing
existing roof coverings where any of the following conditions occur:
            1.   Where the existing roof or roof covering is water-soaked or
has deteriorated to the point that the existing roof or roof covering is not
adequate as a base for additional roofing.
            2.   Where the existing roof covering is wood shake, wood shingles,
slate, clay, cement or asbestos-cement tile.
            3.   Where the existing roof has two or more applications of any
type of roof covering.
            4.   For asphalt shingles, when the building is located in an area
subject to moderate or severe hail exposure according to § R905.1.
            5.   Exceptions.
               a.   Complete and separate roofing systems, such as standing-
seam metal roof systems, that are designed to transmit the roof loads directly
to the building's structural system and that do not rely on existing roofs and
roof coverings for support, shall not require the removal of existing roof
coverings.
               b.   Installation of metal panel, metal shingle, and concrete
and clay tile roof coverings over existing wood shake roofs shall be permitted
when the application is in accordance with § R908.4.
               c.   The application of new protective coating over existing
spray polyurethane foam roofing systems shall be permitted without tear-off of
existing roof coverings.
         (k)   U-factor alternative (adopted in lieu of IRC § N1102.1.2).
            1.   An assembly with a U-factor equal to or less than that
specified in Table N1102.1.4 shall be permitted as an alternative to the R-
value in Table N1102.1.2
            2.   Exception. For mass walls not meeting the criterion for
insulation location in § N1102.2.5, the U-factor shall be permitted to be:
               a.   U-factor of 0.17 in Climate Zone 1.
               b.   U-factor of 0.14 in Climate Zone 2.
               c.   U-factor of 0.12 in Climate Zone 3.
               d.   U-factor of 0.10 in Climate Zone 4 except Marine.
               e.   U-factor of 0.082 in Climate Zone 5 and Marine 4.
               f.   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and townhomes
with a window to wall ratio greater than 15% must conform to the State of
Nebraska Energy Code.
   (D)   International Existing Building Code adopted by reference. Certain
documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the Office of the
City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and designated as the
International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, are hereby adopted; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Existing Building Code, and all amendments, revisions or editions
thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the Office of the City Clerk of
the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out herein.
   (E)   International Swimming Pool And Spa Code adopted by reference. Certain
documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and designated as the
International Swimming Pool And Spa Code, 2018 Edition, are hereby adopted; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Swimming Pool And Spa Code, and all amendments, revisions or
editions thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the Office of the City
Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (F)   International Energy Conservation Code adopted by reference. Certain
documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and designated as the
International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, are hereby adopted; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Energy Conservation Code, and all amendments, revisions or
editions thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (G)   Life Safety Code adopted by reference. NFPA 101 Life Safety Code 2012
Edition adopted. Certain documents in book or pamphlet form, two copies of
which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and
being marked and designated as the NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2012 Edition
(“LSC”), modified as described below, are hereby incorporated herein and
adopted, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of such LSC, and all amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to,
incorporated, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein. The
LSC is hereby adopted as amended, altered, modified and changed in the
following respects: all provisions set forth within the Nebraska Administrative
Code Title 153 - State Fire Marshal shall control except for those provisions
set forth in Title 153, Chapter 20: “Fees for Inspection for Fire Safety,”
which fees instead shall be as determined and set forth from time to time by
the Mayor and City Council in the La Vista Master Fee Ordinance.
   (H)   International Fire Code adopted by reference. International Fire Code
2018 Edition adopted. Certain documents in book or pamphlet form, two copies of
which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and
being marked and designated as the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition
(“IFC”), modified as described below, are hereby incorporated herein and
adopted, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of such IFC, and all amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to,
incorporated, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein. The
IFC is hereby adopted as amended, altered, modified and changed in the
following respects:
      (1)   Specifically adopted are:
         (a)   The IFC, Chapters 1 through 67, inclusive, and Chapter 80.
         (b)   The IFC, Appendices B, E, F, G, H, and I.
      (2)   Specifically not adopted are the IFC, Appendices A, C, D, J, K, L,
M, and N.
      (3)   The IFC shall apply to the construction, alteration, enlargement,
replacement or repair of all buildings and structures, and any new construction
required as a result of moving any building.
      (4)   Amendments.
         (a)   101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the
International Fire Code of the City of La Vista, Sarpy County, Nebraska, shall
be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this code."
         (b)   Section 307 Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable
Outdoor Fireplaces.
(Page 46-47) Sections 307.1 through 307.5 of the IFC are hereby deleted in
their entirety. Sections 307.6 through 307.7 are hereby added as set forth
below:
            (1)   307.6 Definitions.
      (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
OPEN BURNING
Using fire to burn material which is not contained within a fully enclosed
firebox or structure and from which the products of combustion are permitted
directly to the open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney or burning that is conducted in a noncombustible container sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom,
and a mesh covering with openings not larger than ¼ inch square. Charcoal
fires, or fire of other commonly accepted cooking fuels, which are contained
within a manufactured hibachi, grill, smoker or gas grill, do not constitute
open burning.
(2)   307.7 General. Except as otherwise provided herein or elsewhere in the
municipal code, no person, firm or corporation shall burn or cause to be burned
any material, item or thing within the city limits or within its two mile
extraterritorial jurisdiction in any residential or commercially developed
areas.
Exceptions.
1.   This section shall not apply to and no permit shall be required for any
burning which is necessary for the usual and customary preparation and/or
cooking of food, including the use of normal barbecuing devices.
2.   The Fire Chief or designee may waive the open burning ban under this
section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning
permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit
issued by the Fire Chief or designee to a person desiring to conduct open
burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief or designee and on a form
approved by the State Fire Marshal.
3.   The Fire Chief or designee may waive the open burning ban in his or her
jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Fire Chief or designee.
4.   The burning of dry wood in a small container manufactured for the purpose
of containing small recreational fires may be allowed on the property of one-
or two-family residential dwellings, in accordance with the following
standards:
4.1   Such fires shall be under constant supervision while burning.
4.2   The fire and/or burning must be of such limited size as to allow the
person in charge to have complete control over it.
4.3   The fire and/or burning must not create a nuisance or a hazard to the
health or the safety of persons or property in the area. Fires producing smoke
that is a nuisance shall be extinguished. The Fire Chief or designee is
authorized to order the extinguishment by the attendant in charge or by the
Fire Department of open burning that creates or adds to a hazardous or
objectionable situation.
4.4   The burning of garbage, trash, leaves or other refuse shall not be
permitted.
4.5   The burning or igniting of highly flammable, toxic or explosive materials
shall not be permitted.
         (c)   503.2.1 Dimensions. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an
unobstructed width of not less than 24 feet, exclusive of shoulders, except for
approved security gates in accordance with § 503.6, and an unobstructed
vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet six inches.
         (d)   503.2.7 Grade. The grade of the fire apparatus access road shall
be a maximum of 10% or within the limits established by the Fire Code Official
based on the Fire Department’s apparatus.
         (e)   510.1 Emergency responder radio coverage in new buildings. New
buildings shall have approved radio coverage for emergency responders within
the building based on the existing coverage levels of the public safety
communication system utilized by the jurisdiction, measured at the exterior of
the building. This section shall not require improvement of the existing public
safety systems.
Exceptions.
1.   Where approved by the building official and the fire code official a wired
communication system in accordance with § 907.2.12.2 shall be permitted to be
installed or maintained instead of an approved of an approved radio system.
2.   Where it is determined by the Fire Code Official that the radio coverage
is not needed.
3.   In facilities where emergency responder radio coverage is required and
such systems, components or equipment could have a negative impact on the
normal operations of that facility, the Fire Code Official shall have the
authority to accept an automatically activated emergency responder radio
coverage system.
4.   Any new buildings under 35,000 square feet.
         (f)   903.2.8 Group R.
Exceptions. A sprinkler system is not required when all of the following
conditions exist:
1.   The building is R-2 occupancy and contains eight or fewer apartment units.
2.   Separation is maintained between living units by means of one-hour fire
partitions creating a complete vertical separation from foundation to roof.
3.   Each living unit has its own separate exit access independent of other
living units.
         (g)   1103.2 Emergency responder radio coverage in existing buildings.
Existing buildings other than Group R-3, that do not have approved radio
coverage for emergency responders in the building based on existing coverage
for levels of the public safety communication systems, shall be equipped with
such coverage according to on of the following:
1.   Where an existing wired communication system cannot be repaired or is
being replaced, or where not approved in accidence with § 510.1, Exception 1.
2.   Within a time frame established by the adopting authority.
Exceptions.
1.   Where it is deemed by the Fire Code Official that the radio coverage
system is not needed.
2.   If the building or structure is under 35,000 square feet.
         (h)   CHAPTER 56 Explosives and fireworks. Sections 5601.1 through
5609.1 of the International Fire Code are hereby deleted in their entirety.
Section 5610.1 is hereby added as set forth below:
5610.1 General. The possession, storage, sale, handling, and use of 'consumer
fireworks,’ shall meet the requirements defined by Neb. RS 28-1241 as amended,
and applicable provisions of the La Vista Municipal Code.
   (I)   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings adopted by
reference. Certain documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in
the office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and
designated as the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1985
Edition, are hereby adopted; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings, and all amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file or
hereafter placed on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of La
Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
   (J)   Unsafe buildings. In addition to any applicable provisions of the
Building Code, the Municipal Code or other laws, regulations or rules, all
buildings and structures existing in violation of any provisions of the
International Building Code, International Fire Code or NFPA Life Safety Code
101, as adopted in this §
150.01, upon determination by an applicable enforcement official that the
violation represents a significant risk of damage or loss to persons or
property, shall constitute an unsafe building or structure.
(‘79 Code, § 9-301) (Am. Ord. 517, passed 1-15-91; Am. Ord. 723, passed 4-7-98;
Am. Ord. 966, passed 1-3-06; Am. Ord. 1061, passed 6-17-08; Am. Ord. 1089,
passed 4-7-09; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 8-17-10; Am. Ord. 1270, passed 3-15-16;
Am. Ord. 1439, passed 2-1-22)
§ 150.02 MECHANICAL CODE.
   The standard codes specified below are hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code
of the City of La Vista to regulate and provide complete and certain minimum
standards, provisions and requirements for the design, construction,
installation quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance or use
of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerators or other
miscellaneous heat producing appliances, as well as the design and installation
of fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances through requirements that
emphasize performance, within the jurisdiction of the City of La Vista and
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore.
   (A)   International Mechanical Code adopted by reference. Certain documents
in book form, two copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk
of the City of La Vista and being marked and designated as the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, including all appendices, published by the
International Code Council, are hereby adopted; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such International Mechanical
Code, 2018 Edition, and all appendices, amendments, revisions or editions
thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the office of the City Clerk of
the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out herein.
   (B)   International Fuel Gas Code adopted by reference. Certain documents in
book form, two copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of
the City of La Vista and being marked and designated as the International Fuel
Gas Code, 2018 Edition, including all appendices, published by the
International Code Council, are hereby adopted; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such International Fuel Gas
Code, 2018 Edition, and all appendices, amendments, revisions or editions
thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the office of the City Clerk of
the City of La Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in herein.
(‘79 Code, § 9-302) (Am. Ord. 517, passed 1-15-91; Am. Ord. 723, passed 4-7-98;
Am. Ord. 966, passed 1-3-06; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 8-17-10; Am. Ord. 1270,
passed 3-15-16; Am. Ord. 1439, passed 2-1-22)
§ 150.03 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Certain documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and
designated as International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, prepared
by the International Code Council, and all amendments, revisions or editions
be, and the same are, hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the
City of La Vista regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures in the City of La Vista;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, and all amendments,
revisions or editions thereto on file or hereafter placed on file in the office
of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as it fully set out in this section.
   (B)   Additional requirements, rules and regulations adopted.
      (1)   Windows, skylight and door frames (adopted in addition to IPMC §
304.13).
304.13.3. Whenever there has been damage to non-structural building elements of
a vacant residence, see § 108.2, the owner of such property (in addition to any
obligation under the IPMC) is required to immediately secure and ensure the
continued security of such structure. To specify and not limit the immediately
preceding sentence, any such structure that has windows, skylights or doors
covered to secure the building due to damage of windows, skylights, doors or
door frames, may only be allowed to cover the damaged
openings for a period of 60 days. After such time the owner will then make
permanent corrections to the openings within the time specified by the Building
Official pursuant to IPMC § 304.18.4. If any openings are not secured or
corrected in accordance with IPMC §§ 304.13.3 or 304.18.4, the Building
Official is authorized to perform such work or cause such work to be performed
by any available means, including without limitation, contracting with any
public or private person, entity, or agency. The property owner shall be liable
for the costs of such work, and such costs shall constitute a lien on the real
estate upon which the structure is located, which costs and lien may be
collected, foreclosed or otherwise pursued by the Building Official or the
Building Official’s designee using any available legal or equitable means or
remedies. Any action or exercise of authority by or at the direction of the
Building Official pursuant to this § 304.13.3 shall be carried out in
accordance with applicable laws. Provisions of this § 304.13.3 shall apply,
notwithstanding any other provisions of the IPMC to the contrary.
      (2)   Vacant structures (adopted in addition to IPMC § 304.18).
304.18.4. Whenever there has been damage to non-structural building elements of
a vacant residence, see § 108.2, the owner of any such property (in addition to
any obligation under the IPMC to secure such structure) shall obtain a building
permit and correct all such damage and any other violations specified in the
notice or order to correct issued by the Building Official. All work shall be
completed within the time specified in the notice or order, which shall be no
later than six months after such notice or order is issued. If the work is not
completed within the applicable time, the Building Official is authorized to
perform such work or cause such work to be performed by any available means,
including without limitation, contracting with any public or private person,
entity, or agency. The property owner shall be liable for the costs of such
work, and such costs shall constitute a lien on the real estate upon which the
structure is located, which costs and lien may be collected, foreclosed or
otherwise pursued by the Building Official or the Building Official’s designee
using any available legal or equitable means or remedies. Any action or
exercise of authority by or at the direction of the Building Official pursuant
to this § 304.18.4 shall be carried out in accordance with applicable laws.
Provisions of this § 304.18.4 shall apply, notwithstanding any other provisions
of the IPMC to the contrary.
(‘79 Code, § 9-401) (Am. Ord. 517, passed 1-15-91; Am. Ord. 723, passed 4-7-98;
Am. Ord. 1086, passed 4-7-09; Am. Ord. 1270, passed 3-15-16; Am. Ord. 1439,
passed 2-1-22)
§ 150.04 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Certain documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and
designated as the International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendix
“E”, Sizing of Water Piping System, and Appendix “C”, Structural Safety, are
hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the City of La Vista to regulate and
provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe and
stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and plumbing related work within the jurisdiction of
the City of La Vista and providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of such International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, and specified
appendices, and all amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file or
hereafter placed on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of La
Vista, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out herein.
(‘79 Code, § 9-501) (Am. Ord. 517, passed 1-15-91; Am. Ord. 723, passed 4-7-98;
Am. Ord. 966, passed 1-3-06; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 8-17-10; Am. Ord. 1270,
passed 3-15-16; Am. Ord. 1439, passed 2-1-22)
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Certain documents in book form, two copies of which are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista and being marked and
designated as the National Electric Code, 2017 Edition, including amendments
thereto recommended by the National Fire Protection Association and published
by the National Fire Protection Association, 2017 Edition, are hereby adopted
as the Electrical Code of the City of La Vista to regulate and provide complete
and certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for electrical
wiring of buildings, structures, machinery and equipment for light and power,
safe and fireproof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials
in the installation of electrical wiring and appliances within the jurisdiction
of the City of La Vista and providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such National Electric Code, 2017 Edition, and all
amendments, revisions or editions thereto on file or hereafter placed on file
in the office of the City Clerk of the City of La Vista, are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
(‘79 Code, § 9-601) (Am. Ord. 517, passed 1-15-91; Am. Ord. 723, passed 4-7-98;
Am. Ord. 966, passed 1-3-06; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 8-17-10; Am. Ord. 1270,
passed 3-15-16; Am. Ord. 1439, passed 2-1-22)
§ 150.06 PUBLIC SAFETY RADIO AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall maintain, own, erect,
construct, remodel, renovate, or provide an addition of more than 20% to any
building or structure or any part thereof or cause the same to be done which
fails to support adequate radio coverage for the Sarpy County Radio
Communications System (SCRCS), including but not limited to emergency service
workers, firefighters, and police officers.
      (2)   Descriptively, adequate coverage means:
         (a)   The ability for SCRCS users to transmit into the building an
intelligible voice signal that may be heard;
         (b)   The ability to receive an intelligible voice signal transmitted
and originating from within the building; and
         (c)   The ability to transmit and receive intelligible voice signals
among users who are within the building.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, adequate radio coverage shall include
all of the following:
         (a)   A minimum received signal strength in the building of one micro
volt (-107 dBm) available in 90% of the area of each floor when transmitted
from the SCRCS;
         (b)   A minimum signal strength of one micro volt (-107 dBm) received
by the SCRCS when transmitted from 90% of the area of each floor of the
building;
         (c)   The frequency range that must supported shall be 806 MHz to 869
MHz; and
         (d)   A 90% reliability factor shall be required.
   (B)   Testing procedures.
      (1)   Initial tests. It will be the building owner's responsibility to
have the building tested to ensure that two-way coverage on each floor of the
building is a minimum of 90%. At a minimum, the test shall be conducted using a
Motorola MTS 2000, or equivalent portable radio, talking through the SCRCS.
Radios may be obtained for conduct of the tests from the Sarpy County
Communications Department (SCCD). The gain values of all amplifiers shall be
measured, and the test measurement results shall be provided to the SCCD and
kept on file so that the measurements can be verified each year during the
annual tests. The SCCD will be informed of the schedule for such testing and,
at its discretion, may participate as an observer. A certificate of occupancy
shall not be issued to any structure if the building fails to comply with this
section.
      (2)   Annual tests. The building owner shall be responsible to conduct
annual tests. Such tests shall follow the guidance outlined divisions (A) and
(B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Amplification systems allowed. Buildings and structures that cannot
support the required level of radio coverage shall be equipped with any of the
following in order to achieve the required adequate radio coverage: a radiating
cable system or an internal multiple antenna system with or without FCC
accepted bi-directional amplifiers as needed. If used, bi-directional
amplifiers shall include filters to reduce adjacent frequency interference at
least 35 dB below the National Public Safety Planning Advisory Committee
(NPSPAC) band. The filters shall be tuned to 825 MHz and to 870 MHz so that
they will be 35 dB below the NPSPAC frequencies of 824 MHz and to 869 MHz,
respectively. Other settings may be used provided that they do not attenuate
the NPSPAC frequencies and further provided that they are not more than one MHz
from the NPSPAC frequencies. If any part of the installed system or systems
contains an electrically powered component, the system shall be capable of
operating on an independent battery and/or generator system for a period of at
least 12 hours without external power input. The battery system shall
automatically charge in the presence of an external power input.
   (D)   Filed testing. SCCD personnel, after providing reasonable notice to
the owner or his or her representative, shall have the right to enter onto the
property to conduct field testing to be certain that the required level of
radio coverage is present.
   (E)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to buildings permitted in
residential districts, any building constructed of wood frame, or any building
35 feet high or less, as long as none of the aforementioned buildings make use
of any metal construction or any underground storage or parking areas. For
purposes of this section building and stair shafts are included in the
definition of “all parts of a building,” but elevators may be excluded.
§ 150.07 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted by this chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of this city code, the most restrictive or stringent
provisions shall govern.
(‘79 Code, § 9-901)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk for
that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of
the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature
of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the
names of the owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may
be requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with
the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Building Inspector and if
they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and
all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Building Inspector shall issue the
applicant a permit upon the payment of the permit fee set by resolution of the
City Council. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application
procedures contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(‘79 Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate public buildings, see Neb. RS 16-233
   Authority to regulate construction and safety, see Neb. RS 16-234
§ 150.16 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
(‘79 Code, § 9-202)
§ 150.17 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city's corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of such permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (‘79 Code, § 9-203) (Am. Ord. 1471, passed 12-6-22)
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
§ 150.30 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Use or occupancy. No vacant land shall be occupied, no building or
structure shall be used or occupied and no change or alteration in the existing
occupancy classification of a building, structure or portion thereof shall be
made until the Building Inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy
therefor as provided herein.
   (B)   Temporary vacancy. The occupancy of a building, structure or land
shall not be deemed to have changed because of a temporary vacancy or when the
only change made is one of ownership or tenancy.
   (C)   Exemptions. Noncommercial recreational occupancies of vacant land;
agricultural and horticultural occupancies of vacant land when conducted
exclusively for the use of the owner of the land or his or her tenant; home
occupancies as defined in the Chapter 154.
(‘79 Code, § 9-701)
§ 150.31 ISSUANCE.
   After final inspection, when it is found that the building or structure
complies with the provisions of this chapter, the Building Inspector shall
issue a certificate of occupancy which shall contain the following:
   (A)   The building permit number.
   (B)   The address of the building.
   (C)   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.
   (D)   A statement that the described premises or building complies with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and Chapter 154 at that time, or that
such occupancy is a permitted nonconforming use.
   (E)   The purpose for which the land or building may be occupied in whole or
in its several parts, together with the number of occupants that may be
accommodated in its several stories in whole or in part thereof, in case such
number is limited by a provision of law or by the permit and all special
stipulations of the permit, if any.
(‘79 Code, § 9-702)
§ 150.32 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE.
   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Building Inspector
for the use of a portion or portions of a building or structure prior to the
completion of the entire building or structure.
(‘79 Code, § 9-703)
§ 150.33 POSTING.
   The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises and shall not be removed except by the Building Inspector.
(‘79 Code, § 9-704) Penalty, see §
150.99
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the construction, maintenance
and operation of swimming pools; to maintain a neat, pleasant appearing
environment; to provide uniform standards of construction, maintenance and
operation in order to assure compatibility of swimming pools and surrounding
land usage; and to promote and maintain the safety, environment and general
welfare of persons and their property in the vicinity of swimming pools and the
public generally.
(‘79 Code, § 9-801)
§ 150.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool operated for profit.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by a private club or
group, not operated for profit, limited to a specific number of members or
residents of a block, subdivision, neighborhood or community for the exclusive
use of those members or residents and their guests.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool maintained by an individual for use
solely by his or her household and guests, without payment of any fee, which is
located as an accessory structure on the same lot as his or her residence.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any aboveground or belowground body of water in an artificial
or semi- artificial receptacle or other container, over two feet in depth used
or intended to be used for swimming or bathing. The term includes all
structures, equipment and fixtures, such as filters and pumps, which are
appurtenant to and intended for the operation and maintenance of a swimming
pool.
(‘79 Code, § 9-802)
§ 150.47 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit.
      (1)   Before work is commenced on the construction of a swimming pool,
(or any alteration, addition, remodeling or other improvement to such swimming
pool), application for a building permit shall be made. Each building permit
application for a belowground swimming pool shall be accompanied by two sets of
construction drawings, a plot plan and a surveyor's certificate. Each building
permit application for an aboveground swimming pool shall be accompanied by two
sets of construction drawings and a plot plan. The required construction plans
for both belowground and aboveground swimming pools shall include the following
information, as well as such other data as may be reasonably required by the
City Building Inspector:
         (a)   The dimensions of the pool, including its length, width and
depth.
         (b)   The water capacity of the pool in gallons.
         (c)   Diagrams showing the size of all pipes and valves.
         (d)   A description of the pool's filter system and capacity.
         (e)   A description of the overflow gutters or skimmers.
      (2)   The building permit application and accompanying items shall be
submitted to the City Building Inspector for his or her examination and
approval.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. Before work is commenced on the construction of a
swimming pool, the appropriate plumbing permit must be secured from the City
Building Inspector.
   (C)   Electrical permit. Before work is commenced on the construction of a
swimming pool, the appropriate electrical permit must be secured from the City
Building Inspector.
   (D)   Before issuing the required permits, the City Building Inspector shall
determine that the swimming pool will comply with the provisions of this
subchapter and all other applicable city code sections.
(‘79 Code, § 9-803) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 INSPECTION AND OPENING OF POOLS.
   (A)   Inspection of swimming pools. The City Building Inspector shall
inspect each swimming pool at least once a year.
   (B)   Opening of private swimming pools. No private swimming pool may be
used until the City Building Inspector has inspected the same and approved its
design and construction.
   (C)   Opening of commercial and noncommercial swimming pools. No commercial
or noncommercial swimming pool may be opened until the City Building Inspector
has been shown evidence of inspection and certification by the Nebraska State
Department of Health, Division of Environmental Engineering.
(‘79 Code, § 9-804) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.49 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   The design and construction of each private swimming pool begun after
publication of this subchapter shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Structural and dimensional design. The structural and dimensional
design of private swimming pools shall comply with the Suggested Minimum
Standards for Residential Swimming Pools as published in the Uniform Swimming
Pool, Spa, and Hot Tub Code, 1991 Edition, and any amendments thereto as may be
made therein from time to time, of which standards not less than two copies
have been and now are filed for use and examination by the public in the office
of the Clerk of the City of La Vista and the same hereby are adopted and
incorporated into this subchapter as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   Fill and draw pools. Only private swimming pools may be of the fill
and draw type.
   (C)   Pool interior. The interior of the pool shall be lined with a material
which is smooth in texture, light in color and impervious.
   (D)   Obstructions and projections. No obstructions or projections other
than ladders and steps may extend from the walls or floor of the pool.
   (E)   Overflow gutters or skimmers. Each recirculation or fill and draw pool
shall be equipped with an overflow gutter extending around the pool or adequate
surface skimmers. If surface skimmers are used there shall be one skimmer for
each 50 feet of perimeter or fraction thereof. The skimmer shall be located on
the east side of the pool and shall not protrude from the wall into the
swimming area.
   (F)   Walkways and decks. Walkways and decks shall be constructed of nonslip
material and shall have a minimum slope of one-fourth inch per foot away from
the pool or, in the case of walkways, toward an appropriate drain.
   (G)   Steps and ladders. Each pool shall have at least one ladder or
recessed stairway for each 75 feet of perimeter or fraction thereof. Ladders
shall be equipped with handrails. Steps shall be at least three inches wide and
made of nonslip, easily cleanable material. Steps and ladders shall be so
designed as not to collect water when the water level of the swimming pool is
lowered.
   (H)   Main outlet. The main outlet for all belowground pools shall be
located at the deepest point of the pool. This opening shall be fitted with a
grating not easily removable by persons using the pool and designed to create
no suction hazard.
   (I)   Recirculating system. Recirculating pools shall be equipped with a
recirculating system capable of filtering the entire volume of water in the
pool in 12 hours or less.
   (J)   Pipe connections. All swimming pools within the city shall be filled
with water supplied by the water distribution franchisee which serves the city.
   (K)   Lighting and electrical equipment. Each underwater lighting unit and
each metal fence or permanent metal fixture within ten feet of the pool water
shall be separately grounded. No electrical wiring for lighting or power shall
be permitted to pass overhead within ten feet of the pool water.
(‘79 Code, § 9-805) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.50 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL
SWIMMING POOLS.
   The design and construction of each commercial and noncommercial swimming
pool shall comply with the Standards For Swimming Pool Design issued by the
Nebraska State Department of Health and Human Services, being particularly the
1979 edition thereof, and the while thereof, consisting of sections one through
eight inclusive, and any amendments thereto as may be made therein from time to
time, of which standards not less than two copies have been and now are filed
for use and examination by the public in the office of the Clerk of the city of
La Vista and the same are adopted and incorporated into this subchapter as if
fully set out in length herein.
(‘79 Code, § 9-806) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51 ENCLOSURE OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the owner of a
private outdoor aboveground or belowground swimming pool shall maintain a fence
which completely surrounds his or her property or the pool area and is strong
enough to make the pool inaccessible to small children. The fence shall be at
least six feet high and shall be so constructed as not to have any openings,
holes or gaps bigger than four inches in any dimension. Each gate or door to
the pool area shall be self-closing and self-latching, with the latch located
at least six feet above ground.
   (B)   A natural enclosure, hedge or other barrier approved by the City
Building Inspector may be used in place of a fence if the City Building
Inspector determines that it provides as much protection as the fence otherwise
required in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   All fences enclosing private swimming pools shall be constructed to
conform substantially to those provisions of Chapter 154 of this code,
governing fences in general.
(‘79 Code, § 9-807) (Am. Ord. 285, passed 4-7-81) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52 LIFE SAVING EQUIPMENT FOR PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   The occupier of land on which a private swimming pool is located shall
provide in a conspicuous, easily accessible and plainly marked location the
following life saving equipment for each 1,500 square feet of surface water
area or fraction thereof:
   (A)   A ring-buoy with a minimum outside diameter of 20 inches, secured to a
one-half inch diameter rope as long as one and one-half times the maximum width
of the pool, or 50 feet, whichever is less.
   (B)   A light, but strong life-pole, with blunt ends and not less than 12
feet long.
   (C)   A first aid kit.
(‘79 Code, § 9-808) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53 LIGHTING OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   The occupier of land upon which a private swimming pool is located shall
have the pool adequately lighted while it is being used at night. However,
floodlights or other lights used to illuminate a private swimming pool must be
so arranged and shaded as to reflect light away from adjoining premises.
(‘79 Code, § 9-809) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54 DISINFECTING OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   A private swimming pool shall be disinfected on an as-needed basis. Those
standards recommended by the pool manufacturer shall be followed. Either
chlorine, bromine or iodine shall be used to disinfect swimming pool water. The
water in a private swimming pool shall show an alkaline reaction at all times
when the swimming pool is in use.
(‘79 Code, § 9-810) Penalty, see  §
150.99
§ 150.55 CLOSING OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   The City Building Inspector is authorized to close any private swimming pool
which in his or her opinion is in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter. No person shall use a pool during the time it is closed. The owner
of any private pool which has been closed may appeal to the Board of Adjustment
and have the Board determine the legality of such closing.
(‘79 Code, § 9-811) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.56 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE, COMMERCIAL, AND NONCOMMERCIAL
SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   All private swimming pools shall comply with those lot setback
requirements applicable to accessory structures as set forth in the §§ 154.095
through 154.111 of this code.
   (B)   All commercial and noncommercial swimming pools shall comply with
those lot setback requirements applicable to permitted principal uses as set
forth in Chapter 154 of this code.
(‘79 Code, § 9-812) Penalty, see §
150.99
RENTAL INSPECTION PROGRAM
§ 150.60 ESTABLISHMENT OF RENTAL INSPECTION PROGRAM.
    A rental inspection program is hereby established for the City of La Vista,
Nebraska pursuant to authority granted by Nebraska law, as adopted or amended
from time to time, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 16-246.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.61 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE RENTAL INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council make the following findings:
      (1)   Much of the original housing of the city is approaching 50 years of
age. As housing ages, there is an increasing need for regular monitoring and
action to maintain it and keep the city's neighborhoods in good, safe and
sanitary condition and repair.
      (2)   A significant portion of the original housing and neighborhoods of
the city have transitioned from owner occupied to rental homes, making
consistent monitoring and necessary maintenance more difficult.
      (3)   Transition to rental properties can be a significant factor
contributing to the risk of deteriorating conditions of original housing and
neighborhoods of the city.
      (4)   Multi-unit residential apartment complexes have been constructed in
and around the city in recent years.
      (5)   Failure to properly maintain multi-unit apartment complexes places
multiple tenants at risk.
      (6)   In cases of both single family and multi-unit residential housing,
failure to properly maintain can have a deleterious affect and be a significant
contributing factor to the decline of entire neighborhoods.
      (7)   Tenants of rental housing can face landlord resistance to needed
maintenance or repairs; and tenants might be reluctant to report deficiencies
to landlords.
      (8)   A program that encourages regular maintenance and repair of rental
dwellings is in the public interest, good for tenants and neighborhoods in
which such properties are located, and in the interests of all residents of the
city to keep them in safe, sanitary, and properly maintained condition. Livable
housing and neighborhoods also sustain the city's property tax base.
   (B)   Based on the foregoing, the Mayor and City Council have determined
that it is necessary, desirable, appropriate and in the public interest to
implement a uniform rental housing licensing and inspection program. The
purpose of this rental inspection program is to provide for licensing and
inspection of rental dwellings to promote compliance with the International
Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) and other applicable laws, and to require
property owners of rental dwellings, including single-family rental dwellings,
to obtain licenses for the occupancy of rental dwellings. The intent of this
rental inspection program includes:
      (1)   Promoting the health, safety, and welfare of the persons living in
and near rental dwellings;
      (2)   Preserving of the existing housing supply and neighborhoods;
      (3)   Helping to maintain property values and the city's tax base;
      (4)   Working toward preventing or eliminating substandard and
deteriorating rental housing; and
      (5)   Maintaining a living environment that contributes to healthful
individual and family living.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.62 SCOPE.
   This subchapter applies to any rental dwelling within the corporate limits
of the city, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Nursing care and rehabilitation facilities, and assisted living
facilities, as defined in the La Vista Zoning Ordinance; and
   (B)   Hotels and motels, as defined in the La Vista Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.63 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Other
terms used in this subchapter and not expressly defined herein, but defined in
Section 202 of the IPMC, shall have the meaning as set forth in said Section
202, unless otherwise provided by the context.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The Chief Building Official of the City of La Vista or
his or her designee.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of this subchapter, which shall be
January 1, 2010.
   FOLLOW-UP INSPECTION. An inspection performed by the Building Official
subsequent to the identification of a violation, the purpose of which is to
determine whether the violation has been corrected.
   IPMC. The International Property Maintenance Code, published by the
International Code Council (ICC), as from time to time adopted, amended or
superseded by the City of La Vista. The terms of the IPMC are incorporated
herein by this reference.
   MAJOR CODE VIOLATION. A defect that poses a significant risk of danger, harm
or damage to the life, health, safety or welfare of the tenant, passersby,
occupants or visitors of the rental dwelling or other property, the environment
or general public.
   MINOR CODE VIOLATION. A defect other than that of a major code violation
described above; provided, however, that the Building Official may determine
that multiple minor code violations cumulatively constitute a major code
violation and the violations and rental property or rental dwelling will be
categorized accordingly.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
trust or any other entity or association.
   PRIMARY INSPECTION.  An initial interior and/or exterior inspection for
compliance with the IPMC and any other applicable requirements performed by the
Building Official upon submission of an application for a rental license or
renewal thereof.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. A person responsible for the management of the rental
dwelling other than the property owner. A PROPERTY MANAGER shall be deemed to
be the property owner's agent for purposes of this subchapter unless the
property owner otherwise advises the city in writing.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person holding legal title to a rental dwelling or
rental property as recorded with the Sarpy County Register of Deeds, or
otherwise having control of the rental dwelling as guardian, conservator,
receiver, trustee, executor, administrator or other similar representative
capacity of any such person or his or her estate, to the extent proof of such
control is presented to the satisfaction of the Building Official; provided,
however, that the term PROPERTY OWNER does not include any person whose only
interest in a rental dwelling is as a tenant pursuant to a lease.
   PROPERTY OWNER'S AGENT. A person designated by a property owner as an agent
to act on behalf of and bind the property owner in all matters arising out of
or under this subchapter, except to the extent such authority shall be
expressly limited as provided in writing to the Building Official. A property
manager shall be deemed to be the property owner's agent for purposes of this
subchapter unless the property owner otherwise advises the city in writing.
   RENTAL DWELLING. One or more rooms for lease in an enclosed structure
arranged, designed, and intended for use as a residence or living quarters for
shelter, cooking, eating, sanitation and/or sleeping by one or more persons who
are not its owners and contained within a rental property as defined herein. In
the case of a building containing multiple rental dwellings, each separately
identifiable unit for lease shall constitute a rental dwelling separate from
all other rental dwellings. Provided, however, for purposes of inspections and
compliance under this subchapter, a RENTAL DWELLING shall include all accessory
buildings, common areas, facilities, structures, fixtures, equipment,
appurtenances and improvements of, to or servicing any such rental dwelling,
and premises on, in or over which any such rental dwelling, buildings, common
areas, facilities, structures, fixtures, equipment, appurtenances or
improvements are located.
   RENTAL LICENSE. A license issued to the property owner by the city
authorizing the occupancy of a rental dwelling pursuant to a lease.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. A structure with one or more rental dwelling leased for
occupancy.
   TRANSFER. When a property owner discontinues operation of a rental dwelling,
or sells, gives or disposes of a rental dwelling to any other person, or a
rental dwelling is in any other manner voluntarily or involuntarily transferred
or conveyed to any other person.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.64 RENTAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Rental license required.
      (1)   General rule. On and after the effective date of this subchapter,
no person shall lease or continue to lease a rental dwelling to any other
person unless a rental license is in effect for the rental dwelling. The
following are the requirements for a rental license, all of which as further
provided in this subchapter.
         (a)   Satisfaction of all application-related requirements for a
rental license;
         (b)   Payment of all applicable application and inspection fees and
other amounts;
         (c)   Satisfaction of all inspection-related requirements; and
         (d)   Ongoing compliance with all requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Duration of license. Rental licenses required herein shall expire
annually on the last day of the month of March. Provided, however, see division
(B)(2) below for extension of the term of a license for which an application to
renew has been timely made.
   (B)   Special rules.
      (1)   Multiple unit apartment buildings. A rental license shall be
required for each rental dwelling covered by a separate lease. Provided,
however, that the Building Official may for administrative convenience include
in a single license all rental dwellings of a multi-unit building for which a
license is granted; though by doing so, the Building Official shall not be
prohibited from dealing under this subchapter with each rental dwelling of the
building as separately licensed.
      (2)   Licensing term prolonged pending inspection upon application for
renewal. The term of a rental license shall be prolonged and the property owner
shall be permitted to continue operation of the rental dwelling beyond the last
day of March of any year that an inspection is required of the dwelling
pursuant to §
150.66(B), provided that applicant has satisfied all application requirements
pursuant to §
150.65 in a timely manner and is waiting for inspection, and so long as
divisions (a) and (b) below are satisfied. Extension of a license term in any
case shall cease no later than the Building Official's inspection and grant or
denial of renewal of the rental license.
         (a)   The Building Official is provided access to the rental dwelling
for inspection either by voluntary consent or pursuant to a warrant or other
court order in accordance with applicable law.
         (b)   There is no finding of a major code violation of the IPMC in
effect with respect to the rental dwelling on the date specified in the first
sentence of division (A)(2) above or anytime during the period the license term
is extended pursuant to this division (B)(2).
   (C)   Ongoing compliance required. To maintain a rental license in effect
requires ongoing compliance with applicable requirements of this subchapter and
other laws, rules and regulations during the duration of the license, including
ongoing compliance with the IPMC and other requirements that are the subject of
periodic inspections hereunder or under other applicable laws, rules or
regulations. Any deficiency or failure to comply shall be subject to such
actions, orders, rights and remedies of the Building Official as set forth in
this subchapter, the IPMC or other applicable laws, rules or regulations as
enacted or amended from time to time, up to and including suspension or
revocation of a rental license, charges, and issuance or assessment of
citations, fines, penalties and orders related to violations and to vacate the
premises, all of which shall be carried out in accordance with applicable law.
   (D)   Transfers of rental dwellings. In the event a property owner transfers
a rental dwelling within the meaning of §
150.63, and the subject property remains a rental dwelling, the current license
may be continued by the new property owner for the remaining duration of the
license for the dwelling if the new property owner files a properly completed
application described in §
150.65 within 30 days after the transfer. No additional fees are necessary for
continuing a license for the remaining license period. However, the new
property owner shall take all actions as and when required to renew the license
and maintain it in effect, including paying all fees and other amounts
specified in this subchapter. A rental license shall not be transferred to any
other rental dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.65 RENTAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General rule.  Application for a rental license satisfying the
requirements of this subchapter shall be filed with the city and be accompanied
by all applicable licensing and inspection fees as described herein and/or
established by the master fee ordinance from time to time.
   (B)   License application deadline.
      (1)   General rule. Except as provided in division (B)(2) immediately
following, an application for a rental license and applicable fees shall be
filed and paid by the first day of March, annually.
      (2)   Special rule. Application for a rental license for a rental
dwelling completed or converted to a rental dwelling after the effective date
of subchapter, as defined in §
150.63, shall be filed and the applicable fees paid within 30 days after the
completion of or conversion to a rental dwelling and prior to occupancy.
Subsequent applications and fees shall be filed and paid within the time
specified in division (B)(1) immediately above.
   (C)   Required license application information. Application for a rental
license shall be made in such manner as determined from time to time by the
Building Official and include the following information:
      (1)   Name, street address, telephone number, and e-mail address (if
applicable) of the property owner of the rental dwelling (and rental property,
if different);
      (2)   If different than division (C)(1) above, name, street address and
telephone number of the property manager of the rental dwelling (or rental
property, if different), as defined in §
150.63.
      (3)   Name, street address, telephone number, and e-mail address (if
applicable) of the property owner's agent, if applicable. Unless otherwise
specified by the property owner in writing, the property manager shall be
deemed to be the property owner's agent for purposes of this subchapter.
      (4)   Legal address of the premises;
      (5)   Number of rental dwellings in each building within the rental
property;
      (6)   Occupancy as permitted under the Zoning Ordinance, or as specified
in the certificate of occupancy;
      (7)   Signed statement of property owner and property manager indicating
that the property owner and property manager are aware of the occupancy
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance or Building Code and the legal
ramifications for knowingly violating said codes;
      (8)   The name and address of the registered agent, if the property owner
is not an individual and is required by applicable law to have a registered
agent;
      (9)   Proof of pest extermination, pursuant to Section 308.2 of the IPMC;
and
      (10)   Such other information as the Building Official from time to time
determines necessary in accordance with the purpose and intent of this
subchapter.
   (D)   License fees. Rental license fees shall be in such amounts as provided
in the master fee ordinance from time to time. If a rental license is required
for a rental dwelling under this subchapter and the city does not receive a
properly completed application for the license within 30 days after the
required filing date for said application as provided in this section, an
additional administrative processing fee as set forth in the master fee
ordinance shall apply. This additional fee shall be in addition to the regular
license fee.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.66 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of a properly completed application and payment of
the applicable fees and other amounts for a rental license, the Building
Official shall schedule and notify the property owner of a primary inspection
of the property as soon as is practicable after review of the license
application. At least ten days advance written notice of the inspection shall
be provided to the property owner and tenant in accordance with applicable law.
If either the owner or tenant of a rental dwelling refuses to consent to an
inspection, the Building Official shall obtain a warrant for the inspection in
accordance with applicable taw, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830
et seq.
      (2)   The primary inspection will be conducted to determine if the rental
dwelling satisfies all applicable requirements of the IPMC and other building-
related codes or ordinances adopted or amended from time to time by the city
for the health, safety, and welfare of the persons living in and near rental
dwellings. The Building Official shall be authorized to take such actions as
the Building Official determines necessary or appropriate to implement,
administer and carry out the inspection requirements of this subchapter,
including, but not limited to, scheduling inspections for the efficient use of
city resources.
      (3)   Newly constructed rental dwellings. Provided the required
application and fees and other amounts are filed and paid as required, a
certificate of occupancy issued by the Building Official for any rental
dwelling completed after the effective date of this subchapter shall also
satisfy the initial inspection requirement for a rental license. If filing of
the application or payment of the fee is delayed, the rental dwelling shall be
subject to such application, licensing, inspection and fee requirements as
applicable to any other rental dwelling before a rental license is issued.
   (B)   All rental dwellings required to be licensed shall be classified by
the Building Official based on primary inspections (with the exception of
properties described in Class N) and subject to subsequent inspections as
follows. All inspections shall be subject to and carried out in accordance with
the requirements set forth in division (A) above.
      (1)   Class A. Rental dwelling with minor or no code violations;
inspected two years thereafter. If a minor code violation noted in a primary
inspection exists upon re-inspection two years later, follow-up inspection
shall be required to confirm that all outstanding violations have been
corrected before licensing is issued.
      (2)   Class B. Rental dwelling with major code violations, follow-up
inspection required before licensing is issued; inspected one year thereafter;
and, if no major code violations noted during the one-year inspection,
inspected thereafter as a Class A rental property.
      (3)   Class N. Rental dwelling newly constructed, with construction
completed after the effective date of this subchapter; inspected three years
thereafter.
   (C)   When the primary inspection of a rental dwelling reveals any violation
of applicable requirements, a notice shall be provided to the property owner as
specified in Section 107 of the IPMC. The notice shall contain a time frame set
by the Building Official necessary to correct the violations based on the
number and severity of the violations. Correction of minor code violations
noted shall be deemed to be a condition of the license that is issued or
renewed immediately following the inspection during which the violations were
noted. If a minor code violation noted in a primary inspection exists upon re-
inspection two years later, follow-up inspection shall be required to confirm
that all outstanding violations have been corrected before licensing is issued.
Major code violations shall be corrected to the satisfaction of the Building
Official upon re-inspection before any license is issued or renewed.
   (D)   A follow-up inspection of any major violation will be conducted at the
end of the time frame set by the Building Official to correct the violations
before a license is issued or renewed. If the Building Official finds that any
such violation has not been corrected, the license or license renewal shall be
denied. A major code violation after a license has been issued or renewed shall
be subject to such enforcement action as determined necessary or advisable in
accordance with applicable law, up to and including revocation of the license,
order vacating the premises and assessment of fines and penalties.
   (E)   Inspection fees. The primary inspection shall be conducted at no
charge. Inspection of a Class B property after the primary inspection also
shall be conducted at no charge if violations have been corrected. If any
violation has not been corrected, a fee shall be charged for inspections after
the primary inspection in accordance with the master fee ordinance, which fee
shall be due and payable before a license for said property is issued or
renewed.
   (F)   Inspections may also be conducted at other times as the Building
Official determines necessary, including inspections on a complaint basis.
   (G)   Inspections provided under this subchapter shall be in addition and
supplemental to any other inspection or access authorized under applicable law.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.67 INSPECTION ACCESS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or the property
owner's agent, as defined herein, to be present at the rental property on the
date and time of all primary and follow-up inspections to provide access for
the inspection. Failure to be present at any primary or follow-up inspection
will result in an additional administrative and rescheduling fee in accordance
with the master fee ordinance, in addition to any other rights or remedies
available to the city.
   (B)   In the case of a rental property that contains two or more buildings,
the Building Official shall inspect no less than two rental dwellings within
the building each time an inspection is required hereunder. Multifamily
complexes shall be dealt with as a single property. The property owner or the
property owner's agent, as defined herein, shall be prepared to show the units
specified in the notice of inspection.
   (C)   If any property owner, tenant, or other person lawfully in control of
a rental property or a rental dwelling contained therein fails or refuses to
consent to access and entry to the rental property or rental dwelling under
its/his/her ownership or control for any inspection pursuant to this
subchapter, the Building Official shall apply for and obtain a warrant or other
appropriate court order authorizing such inspections in accordance with
applicable law, including but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830 et seq.
Obstruction by a property owner, tenant or other person of an inspection
authorized by a legally enforceable warrant or other court order, shall be
grounds for denial or revocation of the rental license or renewal thereof, in
addition to any other rights or remedies of the city under applicable law.
   (D)   Access requirements of this subchapter shall be in addition and
supplemental to any other access authorized under applicable law.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.68 LOCAL AGENT REQUIRED.
   The property owner of any rental property or rental dwelling covered by this
subchapter shall be available to the tenant to respond to an emergency on a 24-
hour basis. This requirement may be met by maintaining an operating business or
residence within 60 miles of the property at which the property owner or
property owner's agent is regularly present, or by use of a responsible local
agent who resides within Sarpy County or an adjoining county; any of whom can
be contacted on a 24-hour basis. If the property owner's agent or a local agent
is used, the property owner shall provide the city with the name, address, and
telephone number of the property owner's agent or local agent in addition to
owner information. A post office box, mailing address, or toll free numbers
shall not be deemed sufficient to meet the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
§ 150.69 VIOLATIONS, OFFENSES, REMEDIES AND SPECIAL RULES.
   In addition to other provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   If a rental license is required under this subchapter and the same is
not obtained or is revoked for failure to comply with any requirement of this
subchapter, or the property fails upon inspection to meet applicable
requirements, the procedures and penalties for noncompliance shall be as set
forth in Section 106 of the IPMC or provided by other applicable law.
   (B)   Notice of violations of the provisions of the IPMC and/or other
applicable codes or ordinances issued by the Building Official pursuant to this
subchapter shall be divided into either of the following categories:
      (1)   Major code violation shall have the meaning in §
150.63.
      (2)   Minor code violation shall have the meaning in §
150.63.
   (C)   Such violations shall be cited in the notice of violation as major or
minor code violations, and the nature of the violations and time allotted for
repair shall be specified on the notice. Correction of minor code violations
noted shall be deemed to be a condition of the license that is issued or
renewed after the inspection during which the violations were noted. If a minor
code violation noted in a primary inspection exists upon re-inspection two
years later, follow-up inspection shall be required to confirm that all
outstanding violations have been corrected before licensing is issued. Major
code violations shall be corrected to the satisfaction of the Building Official
upon re-inspection before any license is issued or renewed. After the time
specified for correction, the Building Official shall re-inspect the premises
to confirm that the major code violations have been corrected.
   (D)   A rental license or license renewal may be suspended, denied or
revoked by the Building Official, and an order issued by the Building Official
to vacate a rental dwelling or rental property, upon the failure of the
property owner to take corrective action within the specified time frame or if
the rental property or rental dwelling is found to be unsafe pursuant to the
IPMC, including Section 108 thereof. If a license is suspended, denied or
revoked, the Building Official shall notify the property owner, in writing, of
the same and the reasons therefore and any appeal rights.
   (E)   Other rules.
      (1)   Rights and remedies. All rights and remedies provided in this
subchapter shall be nonexclusive and cumulative of all other rights and
remedies available at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, the
IPMC.
      (2)   Penalties.  Except as otherwise expressly provided by the IPMC or
other applicable law, penalties for violations of this subchapter may be as
specified in §
150.99. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense and
violation subject to prosecution.
      (3)   No refunds. No license or application fee or any other amount paid
the city under this subchapter in any case shall be refunded, including, but
not limited to, fees paid in cases in which a license or renewal thereof is
suspended, denied or revoked, operation of a rental dwelling is suspended,
interrupted or ceases, or a rental dwelling or rental property is transferred,
except to the extent equity may require as determined by the Mayor and City
Council in their sole discretion.
      (4)   Notice and other rights. To the extent required by applicable law:
         (a)   Property owners and other interested persons shall be provided
notice of actions or determinations of the Building Official, including actions
or determinations to grant, deny, suspend or revoke a rental license or renewal
thereof; and
         (b)   Actions or determinations of the Building Official shall be
subject to any applicable procedural requirements including any rights of
appeal pursuant to the IPMC or other applicable law.
(Ord. 1095, passed 10-20-09)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.70 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector of the City of La Vista shall be the Chief Building
Official of the city, and the Building Inspector or the Building Inspector's
agents, assistants or other designees, except as otherwise expressly provided
in any applicable laws, codes or regulations, shall be the city official who
shall have the duty of enforcing all building, housing, zoning, fire, life
safety, plumbing, electrical and other codes and regulations as herein
prescribed, and as used in the code or other applicable law shall include
without limitation the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or his or her designee with
respect to enforcement of fire or life safety codes or related rules or
regulations. The Building Inspector shall inspect all buildings existing,
repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as necessary to insure
compliance with all city ordinances. Not in limitation of the foregoing or
other authority, the Building Inspector shall have the power and authority to
order all work stopped on any construction, repair, alteration, relocation or
other work when there is a violation of any provisions prescribed by
ordinances, laws, rules or regulations. The Building Inspector shall issue
permission to continue any construction, repair, alteration, relocation or
other work where he or she is satisfied that no provisions will be violated. If
a stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order
served on any person or entity engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done. The notice shall briefly set forth the violations and shall specify the
time in which compliance must be made. The Building Inspector in accordance
with applicable law shall have the power and authority to issue citations and
court summons for violations of building, housing, zoning, life safety,
plumbing, electrical and other laws or regulations relating to buildings in the
same manner as if said citations are issued by the city police. Such written
stop orders, citations and court summons may be served by the Building
Inspector or by a city police officer. In the absence or vacancy in the office
of the Building Inspector, or the City Council fails to appoint a Building
Inspector and there shall be no acting Building Inspector of the City of La
Vista, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall carry out the duties of
the Building Inspector.
(‘79 Code, § 9-101) (Am. Ord. 299, passed 3-16-82; Am. Ord. 326, passed 11-3-
82; Am. Ord. 751, passed 11-17-98; Am. Ord. 1226, passed 9-16-14; Am. Ord.
1527, passed 10-15-24)
§ 150.71 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(‘79 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.72 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder, or his or her agent, that the work fails to comply
with the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection shall be made
after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection
shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place
and all pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be
made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be
unlawful for any person to do work, or cause work to be done, beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without the written approval of the
Building Inspector.
(‘79 Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.73 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by any applicable codes, laws, rules
or regulations: in the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this chapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the
time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too
short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular building make it
unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this
chapter and the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or the occupant
may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the
Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Adjustment shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the requested remedy should be granted. Any variances only shall be granted
as permitted under Neb. RS 19-910 or other applicable law, and where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured, and may include
conditions not generally specified by this code to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted or any other decision of the Board of Adjustment shall
be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
(‘79 Code, § 9-104) (Am. Ord. 1226, passed 9-16-14)
§ 150.74 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
city to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of the persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section, and the city
police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected
and maintained as required.
(‘79 Code, § 9-105)
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION PROGRAM
§ 150.80 ESTABLISHMENT OF VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION PROGRAM.
   A vacant property registration program is hereby established for the City of
La Vista, Nebraska pursuant to authority granted by Nebraska law, as adopted or
amended from time to time, including but not limited to Neb. RS 19-5401 through
19-5408 (the Vacant Property Registration Act) and Neb. RS 16-246. The vacant
property registration program shall be applicable to vacant residential
properties exhibiting evidence of vacancy, generally meaning for purposes of
the program conditions or circumstances that would lead a reasonable person to
believe that a residential building is vacant and neglected, as described below
in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.81 FINDINGS.
   The Mayor and Council make the following findings:
   (A)   In the Vacant Property Registration Act, the Nebraska Legislature has
recognized, and the Mayor and Council recognize:
      (1)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems
for Nebraska communities, including a propensity to foster criminal activity,
create public health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
      (2)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
      (3)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in Nebraska
communities;
      (4)   A vacant property registration chapter allows a municipality to
discourage property vacancy and neglect, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide
a data base of vacant properties and their owners, and assess fees for the
increased public costs associated with vacant properties;
      (5)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration chapter have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
      (6)   Enactment of a vacant property registration chapter is a proper
exercise of governmental authority to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of community residents and a valid regulatory scheme. Such a chapter
will allow the city to identify and register vacant properties, collect fees to
compensate for the public costs of vacant properties, plan for the
rehabilitation of vacant properties, and encourage the occupancy of vacant
properties.
   (B)   The Mayor and Council further recognize and find:
      (1)   A program that establishes and enforces a registration system to
monitor vacant residential buildings is in the public interest, good for the
neighborhoods in which such properties are located, and in the interests of all
residents of the city; and
      (2)   Livable housing and neighborhoods sustain the city's property tax
base.
   (C)   Based on the foregoing and to correct or prevent negative consequences
of vacant residential buildings, the Mayor and City Council have determined
that it is necessary, desirable, appropriate, and in the public interest to
implement a vacant property registration program for vacant residential
properties.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.82 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION PROGRAM.
   The purpose of this program is to provide for registration and inspection of
vacant residential buildings and to promote compliance with the municipal code
and other applicable laws. The intent of this program includes:
   (A)   Reducing risks of conditions that are catalysts for unlawful
activities, declining neighborhoods, and dangers to persons or property;
   (B)   Promoting the health, safety, and welfare of the city and its
residents, including without limitation the persons living near vacant
residential properties;
   (C)   Promoting the repair and rehabilitation of vacant residential
properties;
   (D)   Promoting the occupancy of vacant residential properties;
   (E)   Preserving the existing housing supply and neighborhoods;
   (F)   Helping to maintain property values and the city's tax base;
   (G)   Working toward preventing or eliminating substandard and deteriorating
housing; and
   (H)   Maintaining a living environment that contributes to healthful
individual and family living.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.83 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Chief Building Official of the city and, in the event
of the absence, disability, or other unavailability of the Chief Building
Official, any individual designated by the City Administrator to perform the
duties of the Chief Building Official of the city.
   CITY. The City of La Vista, in Sarpy County, Nebraska.
   CITY CODE. The municipal code of the city.
   COUNTY. The County of Sarpy in Nebraska, as defined in the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
   DIRECTOR. The Community Development Director of the city.
   DWELLING. Any building that contains one or more dwelling units constructed
or used for residential purposes, or intended or designed to be built, used,
rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied for residential purposes,
excluding hotels and motels. This includes but is not limited to single family
houses and residences, townhomes, duplexes and other multiplexes, apartment
buildings, and other similar buildings and structures.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit, with one or more rooms, providing independent
living facilities for residential purposes of one or more persons.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS SUBCHAPTER. February 1, 2021.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building is vacant and neglected. Such
conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash, or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property;
      (5)   Within the preceding six months, due to some condition of or upon
the property, the property has been the subject of two or more notices of
violation of the provisions of applicable federal, state or local laws or
regulations, including, without limitation, Chapters
50,
91,
92, 
93,
133, or
150 of the city code;
      (6)   The dwelling is unsecured for 30 or more days, meaning that
persons, animals or the elements of weather, using little or no effort, may
access or enter the dwelling, which is not being actively used as a dwelling,
including, without limitation, by way of any open, unlocked, damaged, broken,
weakened, compromised, or missing doors, windows, or other building components;
      (7)   The dwelling has sustained significant fire, wind, water, or other
damage, is uninhabitable, and diligent, consistent efforts to repair,
rehabilitate, renovate, demolish, or remove the building are not evident within
60 days after the occurrence resulting in such damage;
      (8)   The dwelling has been declared a nuisance pursuant to applicable
Nebraska law or regulation, or ordinances or regulations of the city,
including, without limitation, Neb. RS 18-1722 and
Chapter 92 of the city code;
      (9)   The dwelling has been boarded up for a period of more than 60 days,
meaning that one or more of the building’s doors or windows, or door or window
openings, have been covered with plywood, wood, or metal sheeting, paneling, or
other materials, other than permanently installed doors or windows, for the
purpose of preventing persons, animals, or the elements of weather from
entering into the building;
      (10)   The dwelling has been declared and placarded by the Building
Official as a dangerous building or an unsafe structure pursuant to applicable
Nebraska law or regulation or ordinances or regulations of the city, including
without limitation §
92.15 or
Chapter 150 of the city code;
      (11)   The dwelling has sustained substantial deterioration due to lack
of maintenance, replacement, or repair and the owner has failed to comply with
a previous notice to correct a violation of applicable Nebraska law or
regulation or ordinances or regulations of the city;
      (12)   The owner has failed to appear and a warrant or citation has been
issued by a court of law for a violation of federal, state or local law or
regulation, including without limitation, Chapter
50,
91,
92, 
93,
133, or
150 of the city code, regarding an unoccupied building or structure exhibiting
any violation of any such law or regulation;
      (13)   The owner has refused to accept service of notices of violation of
applicable laws or regulations, including without limitation, Chapter
50,
91,
92, 
93,
133, or
150 of the city code, when service has been attempted; or
      (14)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes and is not being maintained
or is being allowed to deteriorate, as determined by the Building Official.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or with another or others, holds legal title to
a vacant residential building, as shown by the records of the register of deeds
of the county, or who holds an equitable interest in such property, or who
otherwise has care, custody, or control of the property as guardian,
conservator, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, beneficiary, or in any
other representative capacity, to the extent proof of such control to the
satisfaction of the Building Official is presented to or obtained by the
Building Official. All holders of any legal or equitable title or interest in a
vacant residential building shall be jointly and severally liable under this
subchapter as owners of such vacant residential building.
   OWNER’S AGENT. A person designated by the owner as an agent to act on behalf
of and to bind the owner in matters arising under this subchapter, except to
the extent the owner otherwise advises the Building Official in writing.
   PROGRAM. The vacant property registration program established by this
subchapter.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. Any person responsible for the management of a property
other than the owner. A property manager shall be deemed to be the owner’s
agent for purposes of this subchapter unless the owner otherwise advises the
Building Official in writing.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building, a trailer house, and any other dwelling.
   RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES. Occupancy, use, or intended use for residential or
living quarters, including, without limitation, shelter, cooking, eating,
sanitation, or sleeping by one or more persons.
   SUBCHAPTER. Sections
150.80 et seq. of the city code.
   VACANT. A residential building exhibits evidence of vacancy. If a vacant
residential building becomes occupied for a period of 30 days or less, and
immediately following such period of occupancy the building again becomes
unoccupied, the building shall be deemed for purposes of this subchapter to
have remained vacant during such period of occupancy.
   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION FORM. The form described in §
150.86(A) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.84 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to and respecting any residential building
located within the corporate limits of the city. If more than one residential
building is located upon a single lot, piece or parcel of land, such as an
apartment complex comprised of more than one residential building, this
subchapter shall apply separately to each such building. If a residential
building is comprised of more than one dwelling unit and not all of such
dwelling units are owned by the same owner, such as a condominium comprised of
more than one dwelling unit, this subchapter shall apply separately to each
dwelling unit.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any residential building that becomes
vacant after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to any property owned by the federal
government, the State of Nebraska, or any political subdivision thereof.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to any lot, piece or parcel of land
that has not been or is not being improved with a residential building, but
this subchapter shall apply to any lot, piece or parcel of land on which
construction of a residential building commenced, even if such construction is
subsequently halted.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.85 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Official shall serve as the administrator of the program,
and shall be primarily responsible for administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, including without limitation, interpretation of this subchapter.
The name and telephone number of the Building Official of the city, and his or
her email address (or a hyperlink to his or her email address) shall be
displayed on the city's website. The Building Official shall be authorized to
designate any other individual to assist in carrying out any task or function
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The Director, in consultation with the Building Official, is
authorized to promulgate policies, procedures and regulations for the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   If visual observation from the street, a public sidewalk, any other
public area, or any other place at which the observer is lawfully present
causes the Building Official reasonably to suspect that a building may be a
vacant residential building, or if any employee or official of the city or
member of the public makes a verbal, written, or electronic report to the city
that causes the Building Official reasonably to suspect that a building may be
a vacant residential building, the Building Official may investigate the matter
to determine whether the building is a vacant residential building. In
conducting such investigation, the Building Official may interview persons
having knowledge of the circumstances (such as individuals who reside in the
vicinity or neighborhood of the building, law enforcement officers and other
public officials), examine public records, and contact and interview other
persons including without limitation the owner, property manager, or owner's
agent.
      (1)   If the Building Official determines that the building is a vacant
residential building, but that it has been vacant for less than 180 days, the
Building Official shall provide a copy of the vacant property registration form
to the owner, property manager, or owner's agent, and shall notify the owner,
property manager, or owner's agent that unless the property is exempt from the
registration requirements of this subchapter, the vacant property must be
registered when it has been vacant for 180 days. The notification may be given
verbally, in writing, or electronically. Failure of the Building Official to
provide a copy of the vacant property registration form or to give such
notification shall not be jurisdictional and shall not bar enforcement of this
subchapter respecting the property.
      (2)   If the Building Official determines that a building is a vacant
residential building that has been vacant for 180 days or longer, the Building
Official shall provide a copy of the vacant property registration form to the
owner, property manager, or owner’s agent, and shall notify the owner, property
manager, or owner's agent by certified United States mail that the vacant
property must be registered as a vacant property within 15 days after the
mailing of the notice, unless within such 15 days period the owner, property
manager, or owner's agent provides to the Building Official information showing
to the satisfaction of the Building Official either that the building is not a
residential building that has been vacant for 180 days or longer or that the
building is exempt from the registration requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   For purposes of determining the number of days of any vacancy under
this subchapter, the period of any vacancy occurring before, on or after the
effective date of this subchapter shall be included and counted.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.86 REGISTRATION DATABASE; REGISTRATION AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGISTRATION OF
VACANT RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS; DUTIES OF OWNERS AND SUBSEQUENT OWNERS;
INFORMATION REQUIRED; FEES; CIVIL ACTIONS; LIENS; OWNER’S AGENT.
   (A)   The Building Official shall maintain or cause to be maintained a city-
wide vacant property registration database. The Building Official shall also
develop or cause to be developed a vacant property registration form, in paper
format (or electronic format). The registration form and registration process
shall require such information as the Building Official may specify, which at a
minimum shall include:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address, of the property owner
and, if applicable, of the property manager and owner's agent;
      (2)   The parcel identification number of the vacant property as shown in
the records of the County Assessor, and the street address of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner;
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant; and
      (5)   The plan of the owner to eliminate evidence of vacancy and bring
about the occupancy of the property.
   (B)   An owner of a property on which there is a vacant residential building
shall register the property with the Building Official as a vacant residential
property, or cause the property to be so registered, if the building has been
vacant for 180 days or longer. If the property owner fails to register the
property, the Building Official may register it, which shall have the same
effect as registration by the property owner. One hundred eighty (180) days
after the initial registration of the vacant residential building pursuant to
this division, or 360 days after the building became vacant, whichever is
earlier, the owner shall pay an initial registration fee of $250. Every six
months thereafter, for as long as the property remains on the city's vacant
property registration data base, the owner shall pay a supplemental
registration fee. Each supplemental registration fee shall be double the dollar
amount of the immediately preceding registration fee or supplemental
registration fee, as the case may be, provided that no single supplemental
registration fee shall exceed $2,500. If any fees are not paid when due,
interest shall accrue and be payable on such unpaid amounts at the rate
specified in Neb. RS 45-104.02, as adjusted from time to time.
   (C)   For purposes of calculating the registration fees and supplemental
registration fees imposed under the preceding division, an initial registration
fee shall be due from the owner on the 360th day after the residential building
became vacant and, for that purpose, the building shall be deemed to have been
vacant for 360 days and listed continuously on the city's vacant property
registration database from the 180th day of vacancy through the 360th day of
vacancy. Every six months after such 360th day, and continuing for as long as
the building remains vacant, the building shall be deemed to have been listed
continuously on the city's vacant property registration database, and a
supplemental registration fee shall become due from the owner. The registration
fees and supplemental registration fees shall be imposed upon and be payable by
the owner regardless of whether or not the owner formally registers or causes
the property to be registered with the Building Official, and regardless
whether or not the city elects to register the property, as a vacant
residential building. The Building Official is authorized to place on the
vacant property registration database any residential building that Building
Official deems to be a vacant residential building under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   The city may collect any vacant property registration fee imposed
under this subchapter, or which ought to have been paid under this subchapter
or which became due under this subchapter, by civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Any vacant property registration fee imposed under this subchapter, or
which ought to have been paid under this subchapter or which became due under
this subchapter, and any unpaid fine for any violation of this subchapter, and
any interest on any unpaid fees or fines, shall become a lien on the applicable
property upon the recording of a notice of such lien by the Building Official
in the office of the register of deeds of the county. The lien created under
this subchapter shall be subordinate to all liens on the applicable property
that were recorded prior to the time the notice of such lien under this
subchapter is recorded.
   (F)   The owner of any vacant residential building shall be available to
respond to emergencies 24 hours per day, seven days per week. This requirement
will be deemed satisfied if:
      (1)   The owner or the owner’s property manager maintains a residence or
operating business office within the county or an adjacent county, at which
residence or business office the owner or the property manager is regularly
present; or
      (2)   The owner appoints an owner’s agent who resides within the county
or an adjacent county,
any of whom may be contacted 24 hours per day, seven days per week.
   (G)   If a residential building becomes vacant and remains vacant for 60
days, the owner shall provide the Building Official written or electronic
notice of the name, address, and telephone number of the owner, the address of
the vacant residential building, the date on which the building became vacant
and, if and to the extent applicable, the name, address, and telephone number
of the owner's property manager and the owner’s agent. A post office box,
mailing address, or toll-free number shall not satisfy this division. Upon
receipt of such a notice, the Building Official will provide the owner the
information specified in §
150.86(F)(1) or (2), whichever applies.
   (H)   The owner's designation of a property manager or owner's agent shall
not relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with this subchapter, or with
any other provision of federal, state, or local law or regulation.
   (I)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to this subchapter
assumes the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (J)   If a property is listed on the city’s vacant property registration
database, an owner of the property, or the property manager or the owner’s
agent, shall notify the Building Official when the property is no longer
vacant. The Building Official shall thereupon conduct an inspection and, if the
Building Official determines that the building no longer exhibits evidence of
vacancy and that all registration, supplemental registration and inspection
fees and all fines and interest imposed under or pursuant to this subchapter
have been paid, the Building Official shall remove the property from the vacant
property registration database.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.87 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A property on which there is a vacant residential building shall be
exempt from both registration and payment of registration fees under this
subchapter if the property is advertised in good faith for sale or lease. The
burden of establishing that a property is advertised in good faith for sale or
lease shall be upon the property owner. For purposes of this exemption:
      (1)   A property on which a vacant residential building is located will
be presumed to be advertised in good faith for sale or lease if, for at least
the 90 consecutive days immediately preceding the date upon which the relevant
registration fee or supplemental registration fee would otherwise have been
required respecting the vacant property:
         (a)   1.   The property has been continuously listed for sale in an
active listing with a licensed real estate broker engaged in the real estate
business in Sarpy or Douglas County, Nebraska, for a listed sale price of not
more than 120% of the property’s assessed value as shown by the records of the
County Assessor; and
            2.   A bona fide offer at or above such sale price has not been
received by owner; or
         (b)   1.   The property has been continuously listed for lease in an
active listing with a licensed real estate broker engaged in the real estate
business in Sarpy or Douglas County, Nebraska, for a listed monthly rental of
not more than 1% of 120% of the property's assessed value as shown by the
records of the County Assessor; and
            2.   A bona fide offer at or above such monthly rental has not been
received by owner.
      (2)   If the owner is unable to establish that the property is
presumptively advertised in good faith for sale or lease under division (A)(1)
above, the owner may establish that the property is advertised in good faith
for sale or lease by producing other evidence, provided, a showing that the
property is and has been advertised or available “for sale by owner” or “for
lease by owner,'' or that a “for sale" or "for lease” sign has been displayed
on the property, shall not be sufficient, alone or in combination, to establish
that the property is advertised in good faith for sale or lease, absent
substantial additional evidence that the property is and actually has been
advertised for sale or lease over a reasonably broad geographic or market area
for a reasonable sale price or a reasonable rental amount, as the case may be.
The Building Official shall decide in the first instance whether the owner has
provided sufficient evidence to establish that the property is advertised in
good faith for sale or lease.
   (B)   A property on which there is a vacant residential building shall be
exempt from payment of registration fees (but not registration) under this
subchapter if the Building Official determines:
      (1)   (a)   The building has been damaged by fire, weather, an act of
God, vandalism, or other casualty causing it to be uninhabitable and repair or
renovation activities designed to restore the building to a habitable condition
are or were commenced within 60 days after the damage occurred; or
         (b)   The building is a new building under construction or a building
undergoing renovation;
      (2)   The repair, construction or renovation activities are being
actively implemented or pursued with reasonable diligence and timeliness, and
any evidence of vacancy is being minimized to the greatest extent practicable
as determined by the Building Official; and
      (3)   The building remains vacant for no more than 360 days (or such
longer period as may be approved in writing by the Building Official due to
extenuating circumstances that do not result from any fault or neglect of the
owner, as determined by the Building Official).
      (4)   If a property on which there is a vacant residential building,
otherwise exempt from payment of registration fees under this §
150.87(B), is vacant for more than 360 days (or such longer period as may be
approved in writing by the Building Official due to extenuating circumstances
that do not result from any fault or neglect of the owner, as determined by the
Building Official), this exemption shall not apply and the owner shall pay the
registration fee or fees specified in §
150.86. Any loss of exemption under this division (B) shall relate back to the
commencement of such construction or renovation, or to the date the property
became vacant due to the damage by fire, weather, an act of God, vandalism, or
other casualty, as the case may be.
   (C)   An unoccupied residential building shall be exempt from both
registration and payment of registration fees under this subchapter if it does
not exhibit evidence of vacancy, as determined by the Building Official.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.88 RIGHTS TO PRIOR NOTICE AND APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a residential building shall have the right to reasonable
prior notice of an adverse decision of the city or Building Official under this
subchapter and an opportunity to appeal such decision at a time and place
designated by the Building Official. For such purposes, the Building Official,
as program administrator, shall make decisions on behalf of the city under this
subchapter. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address maintained in the Register of Deeds office of the county, at
least ten days prior to any adverse decision. If the Register of Deeds does not
maintain an address for the owner, then the notice may be addressed to the
owner at the address maintained by the County Assessor. If the owner requests
the Building Official in writing or by electronic mail to mail notices to the
owner at a specified address, notices to the owner shall be sufficient if
mailed to the owner at the specified address.
   (B)   The owner of a vacant property may appeal any such adverse decision by
the city or Building Official to the Director. The appeal shall be in writing
and shall be mailed by certified mail or hand delivered to the Director within
14 calendar days after the adverse decision by the Building Official. The
Director will review the matter on the record made by the Building Official
and, after providing the owner and the Building Official an informal
opportunity to be heard, the Director will make the final decision.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.89 INSPECTIONS; CITATIONS; INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Building Official or his or her designee is authorized to inspect
the interior and exterior of a residential building that is displaying evidence
of vacancy, as determined by the Building Official. The Building Official or
his or her designee is also authorized to inspect the interior and exterior of
a vacant residential building upon registration under this subchapter, or when
the property is originally required to be registered under this subchapter, and
at one-year intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the
vacant property registration data base. At least ten days in advance of a
proposed inspection under this subchapter, the Building Official shall mail the
owner, by certified United States mail, a notice of proposed inspection,
advising the owner of the building address, and the date and time of the
proposed inspection. In the case of multiple owners of a building, a notice
mailed to any owner shall be sufficient. If the owner has provided the Building
Official the name and address of a property manager or the owner’s agent, the
notice of proposed inspection may be mailed to the owner, the property manager,
or the owner’s agent, at the Building Official's discretion.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, the property manager, or
the owner’s agent to be present at the property at the date and time specified
by the Building Official for the proposed inspection, to provide access for the
inspection. If none of such individuals is present at the time and place of the
proposed inspection, the owner, owners, property manager, or owner's agent who
were mailed notice of the proposed inspection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500.
   (C)   If, upon any such inspection, the Building Official observes any
condition that constitutes a violation of, or that causes the building to be
out of compliance with, this subchapter, or with any other any law or
regulation, or any other provision of the city code, the Building Official may
take such action as may be directed by law or as the Building Official may deem
to be appropriate to notify or cite the owner for such condition or violation.
   (D)   If any owner or individual lawfully in control of a residential
building or vacant residential building fails or refuses to consent to access
and entry to the property or building under such individual’s ownership or
control for any inspection pursuant to this subchapter, or if the owner, the
property manager, or the owner's agent fails to provide such access and entry
at the date and time specified by the Building Official for the inspection, the
Building Official may apply for and obtain a warrant or other appropriate court
order authorizing such inspection in accordance with applicable law, including
but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830 et seq.
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided in the city’s master fee ordinance or other
ordinance of the city:
      (1)   An initial inspection of a residential building or vacant
residential building shall be conducted at no charge; and
      (2)   Inspection of a residential building or vacant residential building
after the initial inspection also shall be conducted at no charge if all
violations noted in the preceding inspection have been corrected. If any such
violation has not been corrected, a fee shall be charged for inspections after
the initial inspection as provided in the master fee ordinance, which fee shall
be paid by the owner before a property is removed from the vacant property
registration list.
   (F)   If any claim is made or action brought against an officer, official,
or employee of the city charged or assisting with administration or enforcement
of this subchapter, because of an act performed by him or her in the reasonable
and good faith administration or enforcement of any provision of this
subchapter, the claim or action shall be defended by the city or by the city's
insurer at its cost until the final termination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.90 CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any owner or agent of an owner upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions
of this subchapter who fails, neglects, or refuses to perform such duty, or who
violates a provision of this subchapter, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not to exceed
$500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not to exceed six months,
or both, provided, each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum not less
than $200 for the first offense, not less than $300 for a second offense, and
not less than $400 for the third offense and each offense thereafter. The
penalties provided herein shall be cumulative. Each day that a violation of
this subchapter continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and
shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.91 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS; SUBCHAPTER NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be supplemental and in addition to
any other laws of the State of Nebraska or the city. This subchapter does not
repeal, modify, or limit the remedies, penalties, actions, or abatement
measures that may be taken or imposed at law or in equity by the Building
Official or the city for any act or omission that violates any federal, state
or local law or regulation, regardless of whether the act or omission is also a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1407, passed 1-19-21)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the prohibitions or
provisions of any subchapter or section of this chapter or who neglects or
refuses to comply with the enforcement thereof shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified on the particular subchapter or section
for which the person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such
violation shall be in an amount not to exceed $500 dollars and/or imprisonment
for any length of time not to exceed three months in the discretion of the
court.
(‘79 Code, § 9-902) (Am. Ord. 752, passed 11-17-98)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted
   
151.02   Adoption of official La Vista Comprehensive Plan Update
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the City of La
Vista Comprehensive Plan, updated December 2018, as amended December 20, 2022,
and including and incorporating therein, without limitation, the redevelopment
plan for the 84th Street redevelopment area, amendment No. 1 to the
redevelopment plan for the 84th Street redevelopment area, and amendment No. 2
to the redevelopment plan for the 84th Street redevelopment area, as Appendices
D, E-1 and E-2, respectively, and further including and incorporating therein,
without limitation, all other Appendices A, B, C, F, G, and H, as presented and
on file with the City Clerk and as may from time to time be amended, is adopted
as and shall constitute the comprehensive development plan of the City of La
Vista and general plan for development of the city as a whole. Three copies of
the adopted plan and any amendments thereto shall be kept with enacting or
amending ordinances on file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by
any member of the public during office hours.
(‘79 Code, § 12-101) (Am. Ord. 387, passed 8-6-85; Am. Ord. 519, passed 3-5-91;
Am. Ord. 693, passed 10-7-97; Am. Ord. 1367, passed 9-17-19; Am. Ord. 1379,
passed 2-4-20; Am. Ord. 1382, passed 3-3-20; Am. Ord. 1404, passed 12-15-20;
Am. Ord. 1436, passed 2-1-22; Am. Ord. 1449, passed 4-5-22; Am. Ord. 1472,
passed 12-20-22)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL LA VISTA COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE.
   The City of La Vista Comprehensive Plan, updated December 2018, as amended
December 20, 2022, received and recommended by the La Vista Planning
Commission, and including and incorporating therein, without limitation, the
redevelopment plan for the 84th Street redevelopment area, amendment No. 1 to
the redevelopment plan for the 84th Street redevelopment area, and amendment
No. 2 to the redevelopment plan for the 84th street redevelopment area, as
Appendices D, E-1 and E-2, respectively, and further including and
incorporating therein, without limitation, all other Appendices A, B, C, F, G,
and H, as presented and on file with the City Clerk and as may from time to
time be amended, is hereby adopted and shall constitute the official governing
comprehensive development plan of the city, general plan for development of the
city as a whole, and the successor and replacement of the City of La Vista
Comprehensive Plan, updated December 2018, as amended April 5, 2022, or any
other previously adopted comprehensive development plan or amendment thereto.
(‘79 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 387, passed 8-6-85; Am. Ord. 519, passed 3-5-91; Am.
Ord. 693, passed 10-7-97; Am. Ord. 1367, passed 9-17-19; Am. Ord. 1379, passed
2-4-20; Am. Ord. 1382, passed 3-3-20; Am. Ord. 1404, passed 12-15-20; Am. Ord.
1436, passed 2-1-22; Am. Ord. 1449, passed 4-5-22; Am. Ord. 1472, passed 12-20-
22)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision regulations adopted
   
152.02   Designation of territory
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   To provide for harmonious development of the city and its environs; for the
integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned streets
or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open spaces for
traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of population and
traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions favorable to health,
safety, convenience or prosperity; to insure conformance of subdivision plans
with the capital improvement of the city; and to secure equitable handling of
all subdivision plats by providing uniform procedures and standards for
observance by subdividers and the Planning Commission and City Council, the
2014 Subdivision Regulations for the City of La Vista, Nebraska, as may from
time to time be amended, is adopted. The adopted Subdivision Regulations and
amendments thereto shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and available for
inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(‘79 Code, § 13-101) (Am. Ord. 726, passed 5-5-98; Am. Ord. 906, passed 6-3-03;
Am. Ord. 1211, passed 2-4-14)
§ 152.02 DESIGNATION OF TERRITORY.
   No owner of any real property located within the area designated in this
section may subdivide, plat or layout such real property and building lots,
streets or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use,
or for the use of the purchasers or owners of lots fronting thereon or adjacent
thereto, without first having obtained the approval of the City Council or its
agent designated pursuant to law. The city shall execute such subdivision and
platting jurisdiction over the area within the corporate limits of the city as
said limits shall, from time to time, exist together with all areas outside the
city corporate limits which shall be situated within two miles thereof and
which are within the boundaries of the zoning districts established and shown
on the Official Zoning Map of the city as the same may be amended from time to
time.
(‘79 Code, § 13-102) (Ord. 613, passed 2-7-95)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Certain documents in book form, copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk and designated as the zoning regulations of the city, including
any city ordinances regulating signs, and all amendments, revisions, or
editions thereto adopted from time to time by the City Council are hereby
adopted by reference into this code of ordinances as the zoning regulations of
the city as if set out fully herein.
(‘79 Code, §§ 8-201 and 11-101)
CHAPTER 154: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and authority
   
154.02   Incorporation by reference
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Illicit discharges prohibited
   
154.05   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
154.06   Removal of illicit connection
   
154.07   Private storm water conveyance systems
   
154.08   Discharge of sanitary sewage prohibited
   
154.09   Damage to the municipal storm sewer system
   
154.10   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
154.11   Prohibited discharges from industrial/commercial activities
   
154.12   Notification of prohibited discharges required
   
154.13   Grading permit required
   
154.14   Application for grading permit
   
154.15   Grading permit fee
   
154.16   Issuance of grading permit
   
154.17   Erosion and sediment control at construction and development sites
   
154.18   Requirement for all new development and redevelopment projects
   
154.19   Post-construction storm water management plan
   
154.20   Exemptions from the post-construction storm water management plan
   
154.21   Maintenance of post-construction BMPs
   
154.22   Admission to property
   
154.23   Regulatory actions
   
154.24   Notice of violation; correction of violations
   
154.25   Penalty; recovery of damages
   
154.26   Additional rules and regulations
   
154.27   Appeals
   
154.28   Conflicts with other code sections
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain, and enhance the
public health, safety, and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements
and procedures to control the adverse impacts associated with increased and
altered storm water runoff. Proper management of storm water runoff will
minimize damage to public and private property, reduce the harmful effects of
development on land, control stream channel erosion, reduce local flooding, and
maintain after development, as nearly as possible, the pre-development runoff
characteristics.
   (B)   The application of this chapter and provisions expressed herein shall
be the minimum storm water management requirements and shall not be deemed a
limitation on such management practices. The city shall be responsible for the
coordination and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all that
property within the city's zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.02 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design
Manual, in its most current form, is incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Pollution control practices designed and
carried out to reduce the pollutants contained in discharges, including low
impact development techniques.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a wastewater
drainage system that receives the discharge from soil and waste pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning two
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CBO. The Chief Building Official for the city or his/her authorized agent or
representative.
   CITY. City of La Vista.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, which was enacted
in 1972 to prohibit the discharge of pollutants to receiving waters of the
United States and later amended in 1987, to establish a framework for
regulating municipal, industrial, and construction storm water discharges under
the NPDES Program.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity not defined as an
industrial activity in 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 122.26(b)(14) as of
the date of this chapter, involved in the storage, transportation,
distribution, exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities or providing
professional and/or non-professional services.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any clearing, grading, or excavation that results in
soil disturbance. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY also includes, but is not limited to,
construction, repairs, dewatering, remodeling, building, and emergency
construction activities required to immediately protect public health and
safety.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Public Works Department for the city or his/
her authorized agent or representative.
   DISCHARGE. Any release, spill, leak, pump, flow, escape, dumping, or
disposal of any liquid, semi-solid, or solid substance to the municipal storm
sewer system.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance designated under 40 CFR Part 116 pursuant
to section 311 of the Clean Water Act.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human made conveyance that is directly or indirectly
connected to the municipal separate storm sewer system and allows for an
illicit discharge.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system that is prohibited under local, state, or federal statutes, ordinances,
codes, or regulations. ILLICIT DISCHARGE includes all non-storm water
discharges except discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit or conditionally
exempted by ordinance and include those prohibited in §§
154.04 and
154.11.
   ILLICIT DISPOSAL.  Any disposal, either intentional or unintentional, of
material(s), substance(s), or waste(s) that has the potential to pollute runoff
unless otherwise allowed by law.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity which is associated with
any other of the 11 categories of activities defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14),
as of February 17, 2009.
   INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility involved and/
or used in the production, manufacture, storage, transportation, distribution,
exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities, or any facility involved and/or
used in providing professional services. This category of facility includes but
is not limited to, any facility defined by a Standard Industrial Code (SIC).
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). De-centralized management of precipitation
that would otherwise be storm water runoff, utilizing design techniques that
infiltrate, filter, store, evaporate, or temporarily detain storm water.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A standard for implementation of storm water
management programs to reduce pollutants in storm water. It is the maximum
extent possible taking into account equitable consideration of competing
factors, including, but not limited to the seriousness of the problem, public
health risk, environmental benefits, pollutant removal effectiveness,
regulatory compliance, ability to implement, cost and technical feasibility.
   MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM.  Any pipe, ditch or gully, or system of pipes,
ditches, or gullies, that is owned or operated by the city and used for
collecting and conveying storm water.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. Land-disturbing activities; structural development,
including construction or installation of a building or structure, the creation
of impervious surfaces; and land subdivision.
   NON-STORM WATER RUNOFF. Any discharge to the municipal storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   NPDES.  The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and is
implemented and enforced by a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality (NDEQ)
pursuant to the Clean Water Act that authorizes discharges to waters of the
United States and requires the reduction of pollutants in the discharge.
   NUISANCE. Any nuisance as defined in §
92.15 of this code and also as defined under PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   POLLUTANT. The same as defined in section 502(6) of the Clean Water Act
including, but are not limited to the following, but does not include
uncontaminated storm water, potable water, groundwater, or reclaimed water by a
lawfully permitted water treatment facility.
      (1)   Materials (including but not limited to fuels, solvents, chemical,
detergents, plastic, pellets, hazardous substances, radioactive wastes,
fertilizers, pesticides, paints, soot, slag, ash, sludge);
      (2)   Metals and non-metals both soluble and insoluble (including but not
limited to cadmium, lead, zinc, copper, silver, nickel, chromium, chlorine,
phosphorous, and arsenic);
      (3)   Petroleum hydrocarbons (including but not limited to fuels, oils,
lubricants, surfactants, waste oils, solvents, coolants, and grease);
      (4)   Eroded soils, sediment, and particulate materials in amounts, which
may adversely affect the beneficial use of the receiving waters, flora, or
fauna of the state;
      (5)   Animal wastes (including but not limited to discharge from
confinement facilities, kennels, pens, recreational facilities, and stables);
      (6)   Substances having acidic or corrosive characteristics, unusual
coloration or turbidity;
      (7)   Any domestic or industrial wastewater;
      (8)   Any hazardous substance.
   PRIVATE STORM WATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. A storm water conveyance system that
is not owned or maintained by the city including any instrumentality that
drains or conveys water from a building or from/through one or more properties
to the environment or the city's storm water system.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any discharge in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or an order of the City Council.
   RECEIVING WATERS. All surface water bodies, including all streams, lakes,
ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, wetlands, watercourses, waterways,
wells, springs, irrigation ditches, gullies or channels, drainage systems, and
all other bodies or accumulation of water, natural or artificial, public or
private, situated wholly or partly within or bordering upon the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
   RUNOFF.  Any storm water or non-storm water discharges from a drainage area
that enters the municipal storm sewer system. The term RUNOFF is
interchangeable with the term URBAN RUNOFF.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions.
   SEPARATE STORM SEWER. Pipe or conduit, which by designation of the Director,
carries only storm water runoff, discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit or
discharges conditionally exempted by ordinance.
   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT.   
      (1)   Land-disturbing activity that results in the creation, addition or
replacement of at least 5,000 square feet of impervious surface area on an
already developed site. Redevelopment includes, but is not limited to the
following activities that meet the minimum standards set forth in this
definition:
         (a)   The expansion of a building footprint;
         (b)   Addition or replacement of a structure;
         (c)   Replacement of impervious surface that is not part of a routine
maintenance
activity; and
         (d)   Land-disturbing activities related to structural or impervious
surfaces.
      (2)   Redevelopment does not include routine maintenance activities that
are conducted to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, original
purpose of facility or emergency redevelopment activity required to protect
public health and safety.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
current edition of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President of the United States, Office of Management
and Budget.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).  A plan required by the State
of Nebraska under either the general permit for storm water discharges or an
individual NPDES permit, which includes requirements for storm water discharges
associated with either industrial or construction activities. The purpose of
the plan is to help identify the sources of pollution that affect the quality
of storm water discharges from a site and to describe and ensure the
implementation of practices to reduce pollutants in storm water discharges.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. That part of natural precipitation (rainfall or
snowmelt, including that of any frozen precipitation), which travels via flow
across any surface to the municipal storm sewer system.
   STREET WASH WATER.  The water and the associated debris resulting from the
washing of streets and/or sidewalks.
   URBAN RUNOFF. Any storm water and non-storm water runoff from developed land
in, or adjacent to, any municipality.
   U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 2-17-09)
§ 154.04 ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause the discharge of non-storm water runoff to enter
the municipal separate storm sewer system unless the discharge is one of the
following:
      (1)   Authorized by a NPDES permit issued by EPA, or NDEQ;
      (2)   Caused by or resulting from one of the following:
         (a)   Firefighting activities, where such discharges or flows contain
no significant sources of pollutants;
         (b)   Landscape irrigation;
         (c)   Diverted stream flows;
         (d)   Rising ground waters;
         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration, as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(20);
         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (h)   Foundation drains;
         (i)   Air conditioning condensation;
         (j)   Irrigation water;
         (k)   Springs;
         (l)   Water from crawl space pumps;
         (m)   Footing drains;
         (n)   Lawn watering;
         (o)   Individual residential car washing;
         (p)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
         (q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
         (r)   Street wash water.
      (3)   Authorized by the City of La Vista.
   (B)   All exempt discharges, as listed above, must be in conformance with
all other provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.05 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall install, maintain, or use any connection to the municipal
separate storm sewer system that may result in an illicit discharge to the
municipal storm sewer system. All connections to the municipal storm sewer
system that provide for an illicit discharge from inside a building are
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. For illicit connections made in the past, a plan to remedy the
illicit connection shall be submitted to the Director or CBO.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.06 REMOVAL OF ILLICIT CONNECTION.
   If any person fails to disconnect an illicit connection upon 30-day prior
notification by the CBO or Director, the CBO or Director may cause the removal
of such connection from the municipal storm sewer system. The city may pursue
the recovery of costs by appropriate means including a suit at law against the
person or persons responsible for such disconnection.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.07 PRIVATE STORM WATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The owner of a property where a private storm water conveyance system
is located shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair, and proper
operation of the private storm water conveyance system, regardless of whether
the private storm water conveyance system is completely located on the private
property or partially within the public right-of-way. The city shall have no
responsibility or obligation for the maintenance, repair, or proper operation
of a private storm water conveyance system.
   (B)   If the CBO or Director determines that a private storm water
conveyance system is not operating properly and causes the improper discharge
of storm water to the street, sidewalk or municipal storm sewer system, the CBO
or Director may declare this condition to constitute a public nuisance and
proceed to abate that nuisance in accordance with §
154.04.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.08 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause discharge of sanitary sewage to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. In addition, if the Director determines that a building
drain or building sewer is not operating properly and causes the discharge of
sewage to the street, sidewalk, or municipal separate storm sewer system, the
Director may declare this condition to constitute a public nuisance and proceed
to abate that nuisance in accordance with §
154.04.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.09 DAMAGE TO THE MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal storm sewer system.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.10 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, litter, keep, or
permit to be thrown, deposited, left, maintained or kept any pollutant, refuse,
rubbish, food waste, yard waste, garbage, or any other discarded or abandoned
objects in or upon any public or private property, driveway, parking area,
street, alley, sidewalk, or other location that may result in an illicit
discharge to the municipal storm sewer system. Wastes placed in containers
protected from urban runoff such as bags, cans, or recycling bins, and city-
approved wastes from construction on public right-of-way are exempted from this
prohibition.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.11 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES FROM INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   The following list of discharges from industrial/commercial activities shall
be considered prohibited unless permitted under a separate NPDES permit or
approved by the City Public Works Department. This list is based on §
154.04 regarding illicit discharges prohibited, but is not an exhaustive list
of prohibited discharges to the municipal storm sewer system:
   (A)   Water from the cleaning of vehicle fueling stations, vehicle service
garages, or other types of vehicle service facilities.
   (B)   Water, cleansers, or solvents from the cleaning of vehicles, machinery
or equipment, and other such commercial and industrial operations
   (C)   Water from the washing or rising of vehicles containing soap,
detergents, solvents, or other cleaners.
   (D)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of vehicle engine, undercarriage,
or auto parts cleaning.
   (E)   Vehicle fluids.
   (F)   Mat wash water from food service facilities.
   (G)   Food and kitchen cleaning water from food service facilities.
   (H)   Leakage from dumpsters or trash containers.
   (I)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of garbage dumpster areas and areas
where garbage is stored or contained.
   (J)   Water from pressure washing, steam cleaning, and hand scrubbing of
sidewalks, gutters, plazas, alleyways, outdoor eating areas, steps, building
exteriors, walls, driveways, and other outdoor surfaces.
   (K)   Wastewater or cleaning fluids from carpet cleaning.
   (L)   Swimming pool and spa water.
   (M) Wash out from concrete trucks.
   (N)   Runoff from areas where hazardous substances, including diesel fuel,
gasoline and motor oil are stored.
   (O)   Super-chlorinated, i.e. greater than four mg/l chlorine, water
normally associated with the disinfection of potable water systems.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.12 NOTIFICATION OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGES REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the event of discovery of a discharge to the municipal storm sewer
system that is prohibited by this code, the discharger or permittee shall
immediately notify the CBO or Director of the incident by telephone, facsimile
or e-mail. The notification shall include the discharge location, type of
materials discharged, estimated concentration and volume of the discharge, and
corrective actions taken to contain or minimize the effects of the discharge.
   (B)   In addition, a written report, facsimile or e-mail, addressed to the
CBO or Director detailing the date, time and cause of the discharge, the
quantity and characteristics of the discharge, corrective actions taken to
contain or minimize the effects of the discharge, and corrective actions taken
to prevent future discharges shall be filed by the responsible person within
five days of the occurrence of the non-complying discharge.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.13 GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or cause any grading,
clearing, or excavation activities that result in the disturbance of any land
areas sufficiently large to require a general NPDES construction site storm
water permit, without the property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or their
agent, first obtaining a grading permit from the city's Permits and Inspection
Division. This section shall not apply to grading performed solely for
agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.14 APPLICATION FOR GRADING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or their agent,
desiring a grading permit shall make an application to the Permits and
Inspections Division on the forms provided by the division.
   (B)   Any property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or their agent,
desiring a grading permit shall also submit to the city's Permits and
Inspection Division a completed NDEQ notice of intent/permit application for
coverage under the general NPDES construction site storm water permit. Such
permit application shall be made on forms provided by the NDEQ and distributed
by the Permits and Inspection Division. The City shall review all such
completed applications and then forward the documents to the NDEQ for approval
or denial.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.15 GRADING PERMIT FEE.
   Before any grading permit application will be accepted by the Permits and
Inspection Division, the applicant shall pay to the city a fee in such amount
set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council, and a current record of
such amount shall be maintained by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.16 ISSUANCE OF GRADING PERMIT.
   If, after, examination of the application for a grading permit, the CBO has
determined that the proposed plan will meet the requirements of this chapter
and if the NDEQ approved the NPDES application for the project, or fails to
review and approve or deny the application within 14 days, then the Permits and
Inspection Division shall issue the grading permit.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.17 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AT CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT SITES.
   Provisions for erosion and sediment control at construction and development
sites are set forth in the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design Manual. The
provisions thereof shall be controlling of all subjects contained therein
within the corporate limits and within the jurisdictional area outside the city
limits. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Omaha
Regional Stormwater Design Manual, or any other ordinance, and the provisions
of an NPDES permit issued by the State of Nebraska, the provision that imposes
the higher or most stringent or most specific practice shall prevail.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.18 REQUIREMENT FOR ALL NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   Land development and significant redevelopment projects with the potential
to add pollutants to storm water or to affect the flow rate or velocity of
storm water runoff after construction is completed must include provisions for
the management of the increased post construction runoff in a post-construction
storm water management plan.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.19 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The post-construction storm water management plan shall be submitted
to the city, on a form or format specified by the Director, as part of any
preliminary plat application required in the Subdivision Regulations. Any
parcel of land that is to be developed which requires a grading permit, or
requires a building permit and creates more than 5,000 square feet of
impervious surface, or requires a building permit and meets the definition of
significant redevelopment, and is not already covered by an approved post-
construction storm water management plan (PCSWMP), shall have a PCSWMP
applicable to the parcel of land prepared and submitted to the city.
   (B)   The PCSWMP shall include at a minimum the design, locations, schedules
and procedures for inspection and maintenance of the selected BMPs. Erosion and
sediment control BMPs during the construction process are to be addressed in
the grading permit documents. The BMPs for the PCSWMP shall include low impact
development (LID) BMPs to provide for water quality improvements in the first
one-half inch of runoff from the site. Refer to the Omaha Regional Storm Water
Design Manual for information on BMPs. For significant redevelopment sites, the
calculation of the area requiring control of the first one-half inch of runoff
shall be based only on the impervious area of the project site that is being
added or replaced.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 2-17-09))
§ 154.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM THE POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Systems designed to accommodate only one single family dwelling unit,
duplex, triplex, or quadraplex, provided the single unit is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale, are exempt from the requirements in
this chapter to submit a post-construction storm water management plan.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.21 MAINTENANCE OF POST-CONSTRUCTION BMPS.
   (A)   The owners and occupants of lands on which structural post-
construction BMPs have been installed to meet the requirements of this chapter
shall ensure the maintenance of these BMPs and shall themselves maintain those
BMPs if other persons or entities who are also obligated to maintain those BMPs
(by contract or covenant, or pursuant to this chapter) fail to do so.
Structural BMPs shall be inspected at least annually, and a written record of
inspection results and any maintenance work shall be maintained and available
for review by the city.
   (B)   The responsibility to maintain a BMP may be transferred through a
contract or other agreement. The person or entity accepting a maintenance
obligation in such a contract or agreement will also be legally obliged to
maintain that BMP pursuant to this chapter. However, no contract or other
agreement imposing an obligation to maintain a BMP can relieve a person or
entity of any obligation to maintain a BMP imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   The maintenance agreement shall require the applicant or owner to
execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, to be filled of record,
binding on all subsequent owners of land served by a private storm water
management facility. Such agreement shall provide for access to the facility,
at reasonable times, for inspections by the city or it's authorized
representative to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working
condition to meet design standards.
   (D)   The applicant and/or owner shall record the maintenance agreement with
the Register of Deeds.
   (E)   The maintenance agreement shall also provide that if after notice by
the city to correct a violation requiring maintenance work, satisfactory
corrections are not made by the owner(s) or occupant within a reasonable period
of time (30 days maximum), the city may perform all necessary work to place the
facility in proper working condition. The owner(s) or occupant of the facility
shall be assessed the cost of the work and any lawful penalties.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.22 ADMISSION TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of these rules and
regulations, the CBO or Director, upon the presentation of credentials, may
enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of:
      (1)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Inspecting any BMPs; and
      (3)   Sampling any discharge to the municipal storm sewer system.
   (B)   The CBO or Director may enter upon the property at any hour under
emergency circumstances. The authority to so inspect, sample and copy records
shall be limited to only those things, and only the extent, that it has a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharges into the municipal storm
sewer system.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.23 REGULATORY ACTIONS.
   If substances in violation of §
154.04 are discharged or proposed to be discharged into the municipal storm
sewer system of the city or any tributary thereto, the city may take action
necessary to:
   (A)   Prohibit the discharge of such effluent;
   (B)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that modifications to such
discharger's facilities will reduce or eliminate the discharge of such
substances in conformity with this chapter;
   (C)   Require pretreatment, including storage, detention or retention
facilities necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics
or substances so that the discharge will not violate these prohibitions and
limitations;
   (D)   Require the person making, causing, or allowing the discharge to pay
an additional cost or expense incurred by the city for taking remedial actions
as may be deemed to be desirable or necessary to achieve the purpose of this
chapter;
   (E)   Require any combination or all of the above.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.24 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Chief Building Official or Public Works Director finds that any
person has violated or is violating this chapter or any prohibition, limitation
or requirement contained herein, such person shall be notified in writing.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.25 PENALTY; RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
   Any person who is found to have violated an order provided for in this
chapter, or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provisions
of this chapter and the rules and regulations issued hereunder, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount that does not exceed $500
under this chapter. Each day any such violation or failure to perform such act
shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise
specifically provided. Except as prohibited by the state of federal
constitutions, a prosecution under this chapter, shall not be the exclusive
penalty for such acts or omissions.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.26 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director may make rules and regulations, which expand upon or add to the
provisions of this chapter but are not inconsistent with them. Prior to taking
effect, such rules and regulations, or any amendments thereto, shall be
approved by resolution of the City Council. A copy of such rules and
regulations, with any current amendments, shall be on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.27 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial, suspension, cancellation,
modification, or revocation of any permit provided for in this chapter or by
any other order of the CBO or Director, may within ten days of the receipt of
written notice of the entry of such order, submit a written appeal to the City
Council at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
§ 154.28 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER CODE SECTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall control over any inconsistent or
conflicting provision of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1002, passed 8-1-06)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
- -  - -    Granting to Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, a corporation, the authority
            to maintain and operate a telephone system within the city
            Granting a transfer of Community Tele- Communications, Inc.’s certificate of
361  8-7-84 non-exclusive franchise to operate a CATV System in the city to United Cable
            Television of Sarpy County, Inc.
384  5-22-  Granting a franchise to generate, distribute and deliver an adequate and
     85     continuous supply of electric energy to the city for a term of 25 years
            Granting to Metropolitan Utilities District of Omaha the exclusive right,
650  6-4-96 permission and authority to lay, install, maintain and operate a water
            distribution system within the city
            Granting to People’s Natural Gas, a division of UtiliCorp United, Inc., the
651  6-4-96 right, permission and authority to lay, install, maintain and operate a gas
            transmission and distribution system within the city
800  2-1-00 Extending for 30 days the term of a cable television franchise previously
            transferred to Cox Com, Inc.
802  3-7-00 Extending for 30 days the term of a cable television franchise previously
            transferred to Cox Com, Inc.
804  4-4-00 Extending for 30 days the term of a cable television franchise previously
            transferred to Cox Com, Inc.
805  5-16-  Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise to Cox Communications
     00     Omaha, L.L.C.
827  2-20-  Amending cable television franchise ordinance 805.
     01
     12-6-  Granting a nonexclusive natural gas franchise to Aquila Networks, the full
974  05     text of which is set forth in Chapter 118; repealing Ord. 651 granting such
            franchise to People's Natural Gas.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1979 Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Statute Section Code Section
Statute Section             Code Section
6-101                       11.01
9-601                       113.09
9-601 et seq.               33.23,
                            113.09
11-101                      33.41,
                            34.27
11-103 - 11-118             33.40
13-504(1)                   35.46,
                            35.48
13-504(2)                   35.46
13-504(3)                   35.46
13-505                      35.48
13-506                      35.46
13-506(1)                   35.47
13-506(2)                   35.47
13-507                      35.47
13-508                      35.48
13-508(1)                   35.48
13-509                      35.48
13-511                      35.47
13-518 - 13-522             35.47,
                            35.48
13-606                      35.04
13-1802                     34.28
16-101                      11.01
16-115                      11.02,
                            11.04
16-201                      11.03
16-202                      72.29
                            111.01,
                            113.01,
16-205                      113.02,
                            113.41,
                            120.06
16-206                      95.08
                            92.21,
16-207                      93.003,
                            93.028
                            72.29,
16-210                      93.003,
                            93.017
16-211                      Chapter 74
16-212                      Chapter 74
16-217                      30.02
16-218                      31.05
16-220                      31.06
16-222                      34.01
16-225                      31.26
16-227                      131.04,
                            131.05
16-228                      131.03
                            90.02,
16-230                      92.17,
                            133.01
16-233                      150.15,
                            150.15
16-235                      95.01
                            30.16,
                            31.26,
16-238                      32.04,
                            92.02,
                            92.03
16-240                      30.16,
                            95.01
                            10.99,
16-246                      30.16,
                            72.29,
                            150.80
16-247                      30.49
16-251                      90.70
16-254                      131.04,
                            131.05
16-302.01                   30.03,
                            30.25
16-304                      33.40
                            30.01,
16-305                      31.03,
                            33.55
                            31.01,
16-308                      31.02,
                            31.23
16-309                      31.04
16-310                      33.55
16-312                      30.15
16-313                      30.15
16-314                      30.15,
                            30.16
16-316                      30.15
16-317                      31.22
16-318                      31.21,
                            33.40
16-318(3)                   31.21
16-319                      31.20
                            31.24,
16-321                      35.03,
                            93.025
16-321.01                   35.03
16-322                      31.24
16-323                      31.26
16-326                      33.55,
                            33.56
16-401                      33.25,
                            33.26
16-402                      30.26
16-403                      30.41
                            10.15,
                            30.43,
16-404                      30.45,
                            30.46,
                            30.49
                            30.16,
16-405                      30.44,
                            30.47,
                            30.48
16-501                      35.01
16-502                      31.23
16-503                      35.02
                            72.29,
16-609                      93.043 -
                            93.045
16-610                      93.046 -
                            93.048
16-614                      93.040
16-622                      91.46,
                            91.47
16-627                      91.46,
                            91.47
16-649                      93.025
                            93.015,
16-661 - 16-666             93.019,
                            93.025
16-666                      93.027
16-667                      51.002
16-697.01                   90.02,
                            90.50
16-6,100                    90.30
16-702                      35.51
16-704                      35.49
16-706                      35.07,
                            35.08
16-712                      35.10,
                            35.11
16-712 - 16-715             35.12
16-713                      35.11
16-714                      35.11,
                            35.12
16-715                      35.11
16-716                      35.14
16-717                      31.21
16-717- 16-722              31.21
16-718                      35.06
16-719                      31.21
16-722                      35.45
16-726                      35.05
16-726 - 16-729             35.07
16-901                      92.18
16-907 - 16-910             32.03
16-1014                     34.26
16-1016                     34.26
16-1017                     34.26
17-100                      10.16
17-207                      130.09
17-525                      113.05
18-132                      91.01
18-305 - 18-312             33.57
18-501                      35.51,
                            51.002
18-502                      51.017
18-503                      51.002,
                            51.019
18-506                      51.017
18-1001 - 18-1006           11.03
                            113.01,
18-1208                     113.02,
                            113.40,
                            113.42
18-1208(2)                  113.40
                            10.99,
                            72.58,
                            92.15,
18-1720                     92.17,
                            92.18,
                            93.002,
                            130.09,
                            133.01
                            10.99,
18-1722                     92.17,
                            150.83
18-1736 - 18-1742           72.40
18-1738                     72.40
18-1743                     150.17
18-1748                     51.080,
                            93.059
18-1752                     92.17
18-1755                     93.005
18-2101 - 18-2144           32.08
18-2101 - 18-2155           113.55
18-2101.01                  32.08
18-2102.01                  32.02
                            32.08,
18-2103                     113.55,
                            113.56
18-2103(11)(a)              113.55
18-2103(11)(b)              113.55
                            113.55,
18-2142.02                  113.56,
                            113.59
                            113.55,
18-2142.04                  113.56,
                            113.59
18-2145 - 18-2154           32.08
18-2520                     117.14
18-2701 et seq.             117.01
18-2715                     32.02,
                            117.19
18-2717                     117.07
18-2718                     117.08,
                            117.11
18-2720                     117.14
18-2721                     117.14
18-2732                     117.08
19-222                      91.01
19-710                      92.19
19-901 - 19-914             32.03
19-901 - 19-933             91.01
19-908                      32.02,
                            32.03
19-910                      32.03,
                            150.73
19-915                      30.49,
                            117.15
19-924 - 19-929             32.02
19-926                      32.02
19-929                      32.02
19-1101                     31.21
19-1102 - 19-1104           31.22
19-1103                     31.21
19-1104                     31.21
19-1301 - 19-1304           35.09,
                            35.51
19-1303                     35.09
                            Chapter 37,
19-1825 - 19-1847           37.01,
                            37.08
19-1826(2)                  37.31
                            37.30,
19-1827(2)                  37.32,
                            37.34
19-1827(3)                  37.33
                            37.31,
19-1827(4)                  37.33,
                            37.38
19-1829                     37.09,
                            37.11
19-1830(1)                  37.35 -
                            37.37
19-1830(2)                  37.39
19-1830(3)                  37.39
19-1830(4)                  37.39
19-1830(5)                  37.39
19-1830(6)                  37.39
19-1830(7)                  37.39
19-1830(8)                  37.39
19-1830(9)                  37.39
19-1830(10)                 37.15
19-1830(11)                 37.39
19-1831                     37.10
19-1832                     37.13
19-1833                     37.13
19-1833(3)                  37.13
19-1835(1)                  37.11
19-1835(2)                  37.39
19-1835(3)                  37.11
19-1835(3) part             37.39
19-1835(4)                  37.11
19-1835(5)                  37.12
19-1837                     37.03
19-1838                     37.14
19-1839                     37.39
19-1843                     37.04
19-1846                     37.04
19-2106                     50.03
19-2901 - 19-2909           35.04
19-3001 - 19-3052           36.01
Ch. 19, Art. 33             72.29
19-3701                     30.48
19-4601 et seq.             52.01
19-4610                     52.05
19-4613(2)                  52.05
19-5401 - 19-5408           150.80
25-510.02(2)                11.02
25-2501 - 25-2506           93.005
27-503                      33.72
28-419                      133.03
28-420                      133.04
28-431                      130.02
                            91.25,
28-519                      130.01,
                            130.03,
                            130.04
28-520                      130.01
28-521                      130.01
28-523                      130.05,
                            130.08
28-525                      90.02
28-906                      132.01,
                            132.02
28-907                      91.30
28-908                      91.26,
                            91.31
28-1004                     95.05
28-1005                     95.05
28-1005.01                  95.05
28-1006                     95.15
28-1012                     95.15
28-1012.01                  95.15
28-1201                     134.02
28-1202                     134.02
28-1213                     91.45 -
                            91.47
28-1229                     91.45 -
                            91.47
28-1233                     91.45 -
                            91.47
28-1233(3)                  91.45 -
                            91.47
28-1237                     111.16
28-1239.01                  111.16
                            111.15,
28-1241                     111.16,
                            150.01
28-1244                     111.16
28-1245                     111.16
28-1249                     111.16
28-1321                     92.22,
                            130.09
28-1322                     131.02
29-215                      34.28
29-401                      31.26
29-422 et seq.              70.092
29-830 et seq.              150.66,
                            150.67
29-4003                     135.02
29-4013                     135.02
32-404(1)                   36.01
32-534                      30.25
32-556                      36.01
32-560                      30.02
32-568                      30.15
32-568(3)                   30.02
32-569                      30.02
32-604                      30.01,
                            33.57
32-1301 - 32-1308           30.02
32-1308                     30.02
32-1309                     30.02
35-520                      91.30
39-301                      131.07
39-302                      131.07
39-311                      70.002,
                            70.003
39-602                      70.036
43-512.06                   33.72
44-2821                     33.72
45-104.02                   150.86
45-106                      31.21
48-1503                     35.03
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1401 et seq.             33.57
49-14,103.01 - 49-14,103.03 33.57
49-14,103.01                30.01
49-14,103.04                33.57
51-201 - 51-212             32.01
51-201 - 51-219             90.70
51-205                      90.71
51-211                      90.72,
                            90.73
51-211(1)                   31.29
51-213                      32.01
51-214                      90.71
52-601.01 - 52.605          130.02
52-601.01                   130.02
53-101.01                   114.24
53-102                      114.24
53-103.01 - 53-103.49       114.01
53-118                      114.49
53-123.01(2)                114.30
53-124.12                   114.30
53-124.12(1)                114.30
53-124.12(4)                114.30
53-124.12(6)                114.30
53-129                      114.28
53-131                      114.28
53-131 - 53-134             114.23
53-132                      114.24
53-134                      114.02
53-134.03                   114.49
53-135                      114.26
53-135.01                   114.26
53-168.06                   114.51
53-175                      114.51
53-179                      114.46
53-180                      114.40
53-180.01                   114.45
53-183                      114.41
53-184                      114.43
53-186                      131.01
53-186.01                   131.01
53-187                      114.48
53-190                      114.05
53-194.03                   114.51
53-1,101                    114.03
53-1,102                    114.04
53-1,121                    114.52
54-601                      95.14
54-602                      95.14
54-603                      95.50
55-133                      70.001
54-605                      95.12
60-323                      72.24
60-498.01 - 60-498.04       71.016
60-4,182                    71.001
60-4,182                    71.002
60-4,182                    71.004
60-606 - 60-676             70.001
60-658.01                   71.125
                            70.072,
                            70.075,
                            70.076,
                            70.090,
                            70.091,
                            70.093,
                            70.107,
                            71.008,
60-680                      71.014,
                            71.052,
                            71.095,
                            72.01,
                            72.15 -
                            72.20,
                            72.25,
                            72.28,
                            72.29
60-680(1)(c)                71.011
60-681                      71.096
60-683                      70.106
60-696                      70.056
60-696 et seq.              70.055
60-698                      70.056
60-6,114                    70.108,
                            71.111
60-6,117                    73.02
                            70.070,
                            70.071,
60-6,119 et seq.            70.072,
                            70.075,
                            70.077 -
                            70.079
60-6,123                    71.051
60-6,130                    70.077
60-6,133                    71.081
60-6,134.01                 71.112
                            71.067,
60-6,135                    71.068,
                            71.080,
                            73.39
                            71.067,
60-6,136                    71.068,
                            71.080
60-6,139                    71.082
                            71.010,
60-6,140                    71.011,
                            71.069
60-6,140(1)                 71.009
60-6,146 - 60-6,154         71.065
60-6,151                    71.070
60-6,157                    133.02
60-6,157(1)                 71.037
60-6,159                    71.050
60-6,160                    71.052
60-6,161- 60-6,163          71.053
60-6,163                    71.054
                            71.008,
60-6,166                    72.22,
                            72.23,
                            91.27
60-6,169                    71.007
60-6,179                    71.012,
                            71.014
60-6,183                    71.010,
                            91.29
60-6,184                    91.28,
                            130.04
60-6,185                    71.110
60-6,186                    71.110
60-6,190                    71.110,
                            71.112
60-6,196                    71.016
60-6,196 et seq.            71.016
60-6,197.02 - 60-6,197.08   71.016
60-6,197                    71.016
60-6,201                    71.016
60-6,203                    71.016
60-6,211.08                 131.01
60-6,212                    71.001 -
                            71.003
60-6,215                    71.001,
                            71.002
60-6,219                    70.037
60-6,220                    70.037
60-6,224                    70.037
60-6,235                    70.037
60-6,244                    70.037
60-6,250                    93.049
60-6,254                    70.038,
                            71.013
60-6,255                    70.038
60-6,255(2)                 71.013
60-6,255(3)                 71.013
60-6,256                    70.038
60-6,265 - 60-6,273         70.036
60-6,267                    70.035
60-6,268(2)                 70.035
60-6,285                    70.037
60-6,286                    70.039
60-6,288(2)(j)              93.049
60-6,294(10)                93.049
60-6,308                    71.082
60-6,314                    73.02,
                            73.39
60-6,314(1)                 73.35
60-6,315                    73.39
60-6,315(3)                 73.43
60-6,316                    71.015,
                            73.41
                            73.15 -
                            73.22,
                            73.36,
60-6,317                    73.38,
                            73.39,
                            73.42,
                            73.55,
                            73.56
60-6,318                    73.44
60-6,363 - 60-6,374         70.039
60-6,371                    70.039
60-1901                     130.02
60-1901 et seq.             130.10
60-1901 - 60-1911           130.02
60-1902                     130.02
60-1903                     130.02
60-1903.01                  130.02
60-1903.02                  130.02
60-2410                     130.02
64-118                      11.04
65-606                      95.09
66-1820                     118.13
66-1821                     118.13
70-101                      33.72
70-624.04                   30.01,
                            33.57
71-4401 et seq.             95.09
76-704 - 76-724             93.044
77-1630 - 77-1634           35.50
77-1741                     31.21
77-2202                     31.21
77-2203                     31.21
77-2209                     31.21
77-2210 - 77-2212           31.21
77-2335 - 77-2339           35.09
77-2341                     35.15,
                            117.09
77-2364                     35.13
77-2366                     35.10 -
                            35.13
77-2386 - 77-2397           35.13
77-27,142 et seq.           35.30,
                            35.31
77-27,142 - 77-27,148       35.31
77-27,143                   35.30
77-3442                     35.51
77-4402.03                  95.32,
                            95.47
Ch. 79                      135.02
81-145 - 81-162             35.03
81-502                      91.01
81-506                      34.10
81-520.01                   91.06
81-829.65                   34.28
81-1444                     34.27
81-2005                     70.105
84-712 - 84.712.03          33.75
84-712.04                   33.75
                            33.72,
84-712.05                   33.73,
                            117.18
84-1409                     33.72
84-1409(1)                  33.15
84-1409(2)                  33.15
84-1410                     33.17
84-1411                     33.18,
                            33.21
84-1411(7)                  33.16
84-1411(8)                  33.16
84-1412                     33.19,
                            33.22
84-1412(2)                  33.15
84-1413                     33.19,
                            33.20
84-712 - 84-712.09          37.10
84-712.09                   37.10
84-1408 - 84-1413           33.16
86-704                      120.06
86-1201 et seq.             120.02
86-1237(5)(d)               120.11
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1979 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1979 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1979 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1-101             11.01
1-102             11.02
1-103             11.03
1-106             35.30
1-201             30.01
1-202             30.02
1-203             30.03
1-204             30.15
1-206             30.26
1-207             30.25
1-208             30.27
1-301             31.01
1-302             31.07
1-303             31.04
1-304             31.02
1-305             31.05
1-306             31.06
1-307             31.20
1-308             31.03
1-309             31.21
1-310             31.21
1-311             31.21
1-312             31.21
1-313             31.21
1-314             31.22
1-315             31.22
1-316             31.23
1-318             31.25
1-319             31.26
1-320             31.27
1-321             31.28
1-322             31.29
1-401             33.40
1-402             33.41
1-403             33.01
1-404             33.57
1-405             33.02
1-501             11.04
1-601             33.15
1-602             33.15
1-603             33.16
1-604             33.17
1-605             33.18
1-606             33.19
1-607             33.20
1-608             33.21
1-609             33.22
1-611             33.23
1-612             33.24
1-613             33.25
1-614             33.26
1-701             30.40
1-702             30.41
1-703             30.43
1-704             30.46
1-705             30.47
1-706             30.44
1-707             30.45
1-708             30.48
1-709             30.49
1-710             30.42
1-801             36.01
1-901             35.45
1-902             35.46
1-903             35.47
1-904             35.48
1-904.01          35.50
1-905             35.04
1-906             35.51
1-907             35.49
1-908             35.07
1-909             35.08
1-910             35.09
1-911             35.10
1-912             35.11
1-913             35.12
1-914             35.13
1-915             35.14
1-916             35.15
1-917             35.05
1-918             35.05
1-919             35.06
1-920             35.01
1-921             35.02
1-922             35.03
1-1001            33.55
1-1002            33.56
2-101             30.28
2-201             32.01
2-202             32.02
2-203             2.03
2-204             32.04
2-205             32.05
2-206             32.06
2-207             32.07
3-101             51.001
3-102             51.002
3-103             51.015
3-103.01          51.016
3-104             51.017
3-105             51.018
3-106             51.003
3-107             51.019
3-108             51.005
3-109             51.081
3-110             51.020
3-111             51.030
3-112             51.031
3-113             51.032
3-114             51.033
3-115             51.045
3-116             51.046
3-117             51.047
3-118             51.048
3-119             51.049
3-120             51.060
3-121             51.061
3-122             51.062
3-123             51.063
3-124             51.064
3-125             51.065
3-126             51.066
3-127             51.067
3-128             51.068
3-129             51.069
3-130             51.070
3-131             51.004
3-132             51.082
3-133             51.083
3-134             51.084
3-135             51.085
3-136             51.086
3-137             51.087
3-138             51.088
3-139             51.088
3-140             51.089
3-141             51.100
3-142             51.998
3-143             51.999
3-144             51.101
3-145             51.102
3-146             51.103
3-147             51.080
3-201             34.01
3-202             34.02
3-203             34.03
3-204             34.04
3-205             34.05
3-206             34.06
3-207             34.07
3-208             34.08
3-209             34.09
3-210             34.10
3-211             34.11
3-301             34.25
3-302             34.26
3-303             34.27
3-304             34.28
3-323             130.08
3-401             90.01
3-402             90.02
3-403             90.03
3-501             90.50
3-502             90.51
3-503             90.52
3-504             90.53
3-601             90.70
3-602             90.71
3-603             90.72
3-604             90.73
3-701             90.30
3-702             90.31
4-101             92.02
4-102             92.03
4-104             92.01
4-201             50.01
4-202             50.01
4-203             50.01
4-204             50.03
4-206             50.04
4-207             50.05
4-208             50.02
4-301             92.15
4-301.01          92.15
4-301.02          92.16
4-302             92.17
4-303             92.18
4-304             92.19
4-305             92.20
4-306             92.21
4-401             92.22
4-501             92.99
4-502             92.17
5-101             70.001
5-201             70.078
5-202             70.079
5-203             71.051
5-204             71.096
5-206             71.095
5-207             71.052
5-208             71.053
5-209             71.050
5-210             71.054
5-211             71.065
5-212             71.066
5-213             71.067
5-214             71.068
5-215             71.069
5-216             71.070
5-217             70.076
5-218             70.072
5-219             70.073
5-220             70.074
5-221             70.075
5-301             71.030
5-302             71.031
5-303             71.032
5-304             71.033
5-305             71.034
5-306             71.035
5-307             71.036
5-308             71.037
5-401             70.002
5-402             70.003
5-403             70.077
5-404             70.071
5-405             71.110
5-406             71.111
5-407             71.112
5-409             71.111
5-410             71.113
5-411             71.115
5-412             71.002
5-413             71.001
5-414             71.003
5-415             71.004
5-416             71.005
5-417             71.006
5-418             71.007
5-419             71.008
5-420             71.080
5-421             71.081
5-422             71.082
5-423             71.009
5-424             71.010
5-425             71.011
5-426             71.012
5-427             71.013
5-428             71.014
5-429             71.015
5-430             70.055
5-431             70.056
5-432             70.105
5-433             70.106
5-435             70.108
5-436             70.004
5-437             70.091
5-438             70.092
5-439             70.093
5-440             70.090
5-442             70.035
5-443             70.036
5-501             70.020
5-502             70.021
5-503             70.037
5-504             70.038
5-505             70.039
5-506             70.040
5-507             70.041
5-508             70.042
5-509             70.042
5-510             71.017
5-511             71.016
5-601             73.02
5-602             73.15
5-603             73.16
5-604             73.17
5-605             73.18
5-606             73.19
5-607             73.20
5-608             73.21
5-609             73.22
5-610             73.35
5-611             73.36
5-612             73.37
5-613             73.38
5-614             73.39
5-615             73.40
5-616             73.41
5-617             73.42
5-618             73.43
5-619             73.44
5-620             73.55
5-621             73.01
5-622             73.56
5-701             72.19
5-702             72.15
5-703             72.16
5-704             72.17
5-705             72.18
5-706             72.55
5-707             72.20
5-708             72.21
5-709             72.01
5-710             72.56
5-711             72.22
5-712             72.23
5-713             72.24
5-714             72.25
5-715(A)          72.40
5-715(B)          72.41
5-715(C)          72.42
5-716             72.57
5-719             72.58
5-720             72.59
5-801             70.999
6-101             95.45
6-102             95.46
6-103             95.47
6-104             95.30
6-105             95.31
6-106             95.32
6-107             95.06
6-108             95.08
6-109             95.09
6-110             95.10
6-111             95.01
6-112             95.11
6-113             95.12
6-114             95.13
6-115             95.14
6-116             95.48
6-117             95.49
6-118             95.07
6-119             95.15
6-120             95.99
6-121             95.01
6-122             95.17
6-123             95.16
6-201             95.01
6-202             95.02
6-203             95.01
6-204             95.03
6-205             95.04
6-206             95.05
6-301             132.01
6-302             132.02
6-305             130.03
6-306             130.04
6-307             130.04
6-308             130.05
6-309             131.01
6-311             130.06
6-312             130.06
6-313             134.01
6-314             134.02
6-315             134.03
6-317             131.02
6-318             131.03
6-320             131.04
6-321             131.05
6-322             130.07
6-325             130.09
6-326             131.06
6-327             131.07
6-328             133.01
6-329             133.02
6-330             130.02
6-331             130.02
6-332             130.02
6-333             130.02
6-334             131.08
6-336             133.03
6-337             133.04
6-338             131.09
6-339             131.09
6-340             131.09
7                 10.05
7-101             91.25
7-102             91.26
7-103             91.27
7-104             91.28
7-105             91.29
7-106             91.30
7-107             91.31
7-108             91.32
7-109             91.33
7-201             91.01
7-202             91.02
7-203             91.04
7-204             91.05
7-205             91.06
7-206             91.06
7-207             91.07
7-208             91.03
7-209             91.08
7-301             91.45
7-401             91.46
7-402             91.47
7-501             91.99
8                 10.11
8-101             93.001
8-102             93.002
8-103             93.003
8-104             93.004
8-105             93.005
8-201             153.01
8-301             93.015
8-302             93.016
8-303             93.017
8-304             93.018
8-305             93.019
8-306             93.020
8-307             93.021
8-308             93.022
8-309             93.023
8-310             93.024
8-311             93.025
8-312             93.026
8-313             93.027
8-314             93.028
8-401             93.040
8-402             93.041
8-403             93.042
8-404             93.043
8-405             93.044
8-406             93.045
8-407             93.046
8-408             93.047
8-409             93.048
8-410             93.049
8-411             93.050
8-412             93.051
8-413             93.052
8-414             93.053
8-415             93.054
8-416             93.055
8-417             93.056
8-418             93.057
8-419             93.058
8-420             93.059
8-501             93.070
8-502             93.071
8-503             93.072
8-504             93.073
8-505             93.074
8-506             93.075
8-507             93.076
8-508             93.077
8-509             93.078
8-510             93.079
8-511             93.080
8-512             93.999
8-513             93.081
8-601             94.01
8-602             94.02
8-603             94.03
8-604             94.04
8-605             94.05
8-606             94.06
8-607             94.07
8-608             94.08
8-609             94.09
8-610             94.10
8-611             94.11
8-612             94.12
8-613             94.13
8-614             94.14
8-615             94.15
8-616             94.16
8-701             93.999
8-701             94.99
9-101             150.70
9-102             150.71
9-103             150.72
9-104             150.73
9-105             150.74
9-201             150.15
9-202             150.16
9-203             150.17
9-301             150.01
9-302             150.02
9-401             150.03
9-501             150.04
9-601             150.05
9-701             150.30
9-702             150.31
9-703             150.32
9-704             150.33
9-801             150.45
9-802             150.46
9-803             150.47
9-804             150.48
9-805             150.49
9-806             150.50
9-807             150.51
9-808             150.52
9-809             150.53
9-810             150.54
9-811             150.55
9-812             150.56
9-901             150.07
9-902             150.99
10-101            114.01
10-102            114.20
10-103            114.21
10-104            114.22
10-105            114.23
10-106            114.24
10-107            114.25
10-108            114.26
10-109            114.27
10-110            114.28
10-111            114.29
10-112            114.02
10-113            114.03
10-114            114.04
10-115            114.40
10-116            114.41
10-118            114.43
10-119            114.44
10-120            114.45
10-122            114.05
10-123            114.46
10-124            114.06
10-125            114.06
10-126            114.47
10-127            114.48
10-128            114.49
10-129            114.50
10-131            114.51
10-132            114.99
10-133            114.52
10-134            114.30
10-201            111.01
10-202            111.02
10-203            111.03
10-301            110.01
10-302            110.02
10-312            111.15
10-312            111.16
10-313            111.17
10-314            111.18
10-315            111.19
10-401            112.10
10-402            112.11
10-403            112.12
10-404            112.13
10-405            112.14
10-406            112.26
10-407            112.27
10-408            112.28
10-409            112.29
10-410            112.30
10-411            112.25
10-412            112.31
10-413            112.01
10-414            112.99
10-415            112.45
10-416            112.46
10-417            112.47
10-418            112.48
10-419            112.49
10-501            113.01
10-502            113.02
10-503            113.03
10-504            113.04
10-505            113.05
10-506            113.06
10-507            113.07
10-507.01         113.08
10-507.02         113.09
10-901            35.30
10-903            35.31
10-1001           52.01
10-1002           52.02
10-1003           52.03
10-1004           52.04
10-1005           52.05
10-1006           52.06
10-1007           52.07
10-1008           52.08
11-101            153.01
12-101            151.01
12-102            151.02
13-101            152.01
13-102            152.02
14-101            37.01
14-102            37.01
14-103            37.02
14-104            37.03
14-105            37.04
14-106            37.05
14-107            37.06
14-108            37.07
14-109            37.08
14-201            37.30
14-202            37.31
14-203            37.32
14-204            37.33
14-205            37.34
14-206            37.35
14-207            37.36
14-208            37.37
14-209            37.38
14-210            37.39
14-301            37.09
14-302            37.10
14-303            37.11
14-304            37.12
14-305            37.13
14-306            37.14
14-401            37.15
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Sections
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Sections
—            —         T.S.O. I
10             5-13-60     10.16
14             —         50.04
15             1-1-70      10.16
20             1-1-80      10.16
25             1-1-85      10.16
28             —         93.016
42             —         50.05
                           114.05,
                           114.06,
                           114.21,
                           114.22,
                           114.24,
43             —         114.25,
                           114.27 -
                           114.29,
                           114.45,
                           114.47,
                           114.48,
                           114.99
                           93.070,
                           93.072 -
50             —         93.078,
                           93.080,
                           93.081,
                           93.999
                           93.050 -
56             —         93.052,
                           93.054 -
                           93.057
                           113.01 -
59             —         113.05,
                           113.07
                           93.020 -
60             —         93.023,
                           93.025,
                           93.026
69             —         113.02
73             —         93.071
                           111.15 -
75             —         111.17,
                           111.19
                           51.004,
                           51.061,
78             —         51.063,
                           51.064,
                           51.070
85             —         71.111
89             —         113.02
93             —         133.03,
                           133.04
96             —         93.024
99             —         70.041
102            —         70.042
112            —         70.040
115            —         114.44
127            —         31.23
135            —         71.111
                           91.03,
137            —         91.06,
                           91.07
138            —         110.01,
                           110.02
140            —         51.017
147            —         133.01
148            —         72.25
150            —         93.027
151            —         30.02
155            —         91.32
170            —         32.07
172            —         130.02
174            —         71.111
185            —         32.07
                           95.30 -
186            —         95.32,
                           95.45 -
                           95.47
                           51.003,
                           51.005,
                           51.015,
190            —         51.018 -
                           51.020,
                           51.063,
                           51.081
191            —         51.062
192            —         134.01,
                           134.02
194            —         32.06
199            —         51.064,
                           51.999
201            —         32.03
205            —         93.040 -
                           93.042
                           95.11,
212            —         95.14,
                           95.15,
                           114.46
221            —         32.07
235            10-17-78    72.15
242            6-19-79     113.08
243            6-19-79     10.05,
                           10.11
255            12-4-79     93.044
259            12-4-79     114.46
262            12-4-79     71.003
263            12-4-79     35.03
264            12-4-79     114.26
265            12-4-79     72.40 -
                           72.42
273            6-3-80      90.03
279            11-18-80    131.01
280            12-16-80    51.062
281            3-17-81     51.102
283            4-7-81      95.09,
                           95.10
                           95.01,
                           95.11,
283            4-11-81     95.13,
                           95.14,
                           95.99
283            9-1-81      95.01,
                           95.11
285            4-7-81      150.51
                           95.11,
296            2-2-82      95.17,
                           95.46
298            3-16-82     31.23
299            3-16-82     150.70
302            4-20-82     51.103
304            4-20-82     71.111
306            5-4-82      114.46
307            5-4-82      51.019
308            6-15-82     32.03
                           95.01,
312            7-20-82     95.31,
                           95.47
319            8-17-82     91.33
323            10-19-82    72.57
326            11-3-82     150.70
                           32.01,
328            11-3-82     90.70,
                           90.71
331            12-7-82     72.22
334            12-21-83    32.04
336            4-5-83      73.16,
                           73.17
339            5-31-83     95.16
340            6-21-83     111.19
                           95.06,
348            9-6-83      95.15,
                           95.31,
                           95.46
352            11-15-83    33.57
                           33.15,
353            12-6-83     33.17,
                           33.18,
                           33.22
355            12-20-83    34.26
356            12-20-83    70.090 -
                           70.093
361            8-7-84      T.S.O. I
365            12-4-84     113.08
366            12-18-84    72.18
367            1-2-85      50.01,
                           50.05
371            1-5-85      11.02
372            1-15-85     30.02
373            1-15-85     31.03
376            1-15-85     51.080
377            1-15-85     93.059
379            2-5-85      33.57
380            2-5-85      35.04
381            2-5-85      35.46
384            5-22-85     T.S.O. I
387            8-6-85      151.01,
                           151.02
                           32.05,
                           37.01 -
                           37.05,
395            11-19-85    37.07 -
                           37.15,
                           37.30 -
                           37.39
396            11-5-85     31.22
397            11-19-85    31.23
398            11-19-85    33.22
399            11-19-85    33.25,
                           33.26
402            11-19-85    70.035
403            11-19-85    70.036
405            11-19-85    114.51
406            12-3-85     30.47
408            3-4-86      32.07
409            3-4-86      32.01
410            3-4-86      32.04
                           37.01 -
411            4-16-86     37.15,
                           37.30 -
                           37.39
412            5-20-86     114.24
                           93.071,
413            5-20-86     93.073 -
                           93.075,
                           93.077
418            9-23-86     51.015
421            10-7-86     33.57
422            10-7-86     34.27
423            10-7-86     33.25,
                           33.26
425            11-3-86     51.062
426            11-3-86     93.999,
                           94.99
427            11-14-86    93.058
431            4-7-87      93.023
432            4-7-87      72.16
433            4-7-87      73.16,
                           73.17
434            4-7-87      70.040
435            6-16-87     72.19
436            6-16-87     95.47
437            6-16-87     95.32
438            6-16-87     95.04
439            5-19-87     95.03
440            5-19-87     31.23
441            6-2-87      32.07
444            7-7-87      50.03
448            8-4-87      32.07
449            8-4-87      32.01
450            9-15-87     133.01
452            11-17-87    131.06
457            1-19-88     33.22
466            9-20-88     111.03
469            10-18-88    50.02
470            10-18-88    111.15
471            10-18-88    114.23
474            11-1-88     114.25
490            2-6-90      35.15
492            2-6-90      91.47
493            2-6-90      114.23
494            2-6-90      114.24
496            2-6-90      30.43
498            3-6-90      72.16
499            3-20-90     114.27
512            11-5-90     113.09
513            11-20-90    72.58,
                           72.59
514            12-4-90     70.999
517            1-15-91     150.01 -
                           150.05
519            3-5-91      151.01,
                           151.02
                           112.01,
                           112.11,
520            3-5-91      112.45 -
                           112.49,
                           112.99
522            3-5-91      31.03
523            3-5-91      70.035
533            7-2-91      34.26
536            9-3-91      114.46
539            11-5-91     72.21
545            6-16-92     114.30
546            6-16-92     114.23
547            6-16-92     133.01
548            6-16-92     35.03
551            8-4-92      113.02
552            8-4-92      113.05,
                           113.07
559            4-6-93      70.040
560            4-6-93      95.31,
                           95.46
561            5-4-93      37.39
562            5-4-93      31.22
563            5-4-93      33.17
564            5-4-93      33.15
565            5-4-93      35.45
570            7-20-93     72.19
571            8-17-93     111.19
573            9-7-93      70.040
575            9-7-93      50.03
576            10-20-93    50.05
579            2-15-94     51.015
601            11-15-94    50.03
602            1-3-95      35.46
603            1-3-95      35.48
604            1-3-95      35.49
605            1-17-95     35.14
608            1-17-95     70.001
609            1-17-95     71.065
610            1-17-95     70.020
611            2-7-95      70.037
612            2-7-95      72.40 -
                           72.42
613            2-7-95      152.02
626            9-5-95      33.17
627            9-5-95      30.46
629            9-5-95      34.28
630            9-5-95      92.21
631            9-19-95     130.08
632            9-19-95     91.06
633            9-19-95     93.005
637            12-19-95    131.03
638            12-19-95    114.30
640            12-19-95    94.02
                           92.15,
646            5-7-96      92.16,
                           92.20
648            5-7-96      51.015
650            6-4-96      T.S.O. I
651            6-4-96      T.S.O. I
659            10-1-96     72.17
670            6-17-97     35.48
671            6-17-97     35.49
673            6-17-97     32.03
—            7-1-97      114.51
674            7-1-97      71.010
675            7-1-97      70.020
676            7-1-97      70.037
677            7-1-97      72.40 -
                           72.42
678            7-1-97      72.57
680            7-1-97      72.58
682            7-1-97      30.42
690            9-16-97     72.59
692            9-16-97     35.03
693            10-7-97     151.01,
                           151.02
696            10-7-97     30.40
697            10-7-97     30.47
698            10-7-97     30.48
699            10-7-97     30.49
701            10-21-97    35.46
702            10-21-97    35.48
703            10-21-97    35.50
704            10-21-97    72.40 -
                           72.42
707            11-4-97     51.016
708            11-18-97    114.30
721            3-17-98     111.17
723            4-7-98      150.01 -
                           150.05
726            5-5-98      152.01
729            5-5-98      91.33
740            9-15-98     113.02
745            10-6-98     111.01,
                           111.02
751            11-17-98    150.70
752            11-17-98    150.99
753            11-17-98    112.11
754            11-17-98    112.46
755            12-1-98     95.51
761            2-16-99     70.039
762            2-16-99     131.09
763A           4-4-99      30.02
763            4-6-99      73.16,
                           73.17
764            4-20-99     30.01
767            4-20-99     95.50
771            4-4-99      71.125
772            4-4-99      71.112
773            4-4-99      37.10
774            4-4-99      34.28
777            5-18-99     111.17
792            10-19-99    111.17 -
                           111.19
796            12-7-99     11.05
800            2-1-00      T.S.O. I
802            3-7-00      T.S.O. I
804            4-4-00      T.S.O. I
805            5-16-00     T.S.O. I
806            5-16-00     113.08
807 § 10-801  5-16-00     115.001
807 § 10-802  5-16-00     115.002
807 § 10-803  5-16-00     115.003
807 § 10-804  5-16-00     115.004
807 § 10-805  5-16-00     115.005
807 § 10-806  5-16-00     115.006
807 § 10-807  5-16-00     115.007
807 § 10-808  5-16-00     115.008
807 § 10-809  5-16-00     115.009
807 § 10-810  5-16-00     115.010
807 § 10-811  5-16-00     115.011
807 § 10-812  5-16-00     115.012
807 § 10-813  5-16-00     115.013
807 § 10-814  5-16-00     115.014
807 § 10-815  5-16-00     115.015
807 § 10-816  5-16-00     115.016
807 § 10-817  5-16-00     115.017
807 § 10-818.15-16-00     115.030
807 § 10-818.25-16-00     115.031
807 § 10-818.35-16-00     115.032
807 § 10-818.45-16-00     115.033
807 § 10-818.55-16-00     115.034
807 § 10-818.65-16-00     115.035
807 § 10-818.75-16-00     115.036
807 § 10-818.85-16-00     115.037
807 § 10-818.95-16-00     115.038
807 § 10-819  5-16-00     115.050 -
                           115.052
807 § 10-820.15-16-00     115.060
807 § 10-820.25-16-00     115.061
807 § 10-820.35-16-00     115.062
807 § 10-821  5-16-00     115.070
807 § 10-822  5-16-00     115.071
807 § 10-823  5-16-00     115.072
807 § 10-824  5-16-00     115.073
807 § 10-825  5-16-00     115.073
807 § 10-826  5-16-00     115.074
807 § 10-827.15-16-00     115.090
807 § 10-827.25-16-00     115.091
807 § 10-827.35-16-00     115.092
807 § 10-827.45-16-00     115.093
807 § 10-828.15-16-00     115.100
807 § 10-828.25-16-00     115.101
807 § 10-828.35-16-00     115.102
807 § 10-828.45-16-00     115.103
807 § 10-828.55-16-00     115.104
807 § 10-828.65-16-00     115.105
807 § 10-828.75-16-00     115.106
807 § 10-828.85-16-00     115.107
807 § 10-828.95-16-00     115.108
813            7-18-00     111.19
822            10-2-00     31.01
825            1-16-01     31.231
827            2-20-01     T.S.O. I
849            11-20-01    93.001 -
                           93.005
                           94.02,
850            11-20-01    94.03,
                           94.09
852            12-4-01     32.06
864            6-4-02      116.01 -
                           116.13
                           31.01,
                           31.04,
869            10-1-02     31.23,
                           32.04,
                           34.02
                           95.06,
                           95.16,
876            11-5-02     95.31,
                           95.46,
                           95.48
885            11-19-02    111.17
888            12-17-02    131.05
                           113.01,
903            3-18-03     113.02,
                           113.05,
                           113.06
906            6-3-03      152.01
921            12-2-03     117.01 -
                           117.20
924            1-20-04     70.109 -
                           70.113
925            1-20-04     72.24
927            2-3-04      113.01,
                           113.02
938            8-17-04     133.01
941            11-1-04     34.02
943            12-7-04     33.40
944            12-7-04     33.70 -
                           33.79
959            8-2-05      30.42
                           150.01,
966            1-3-06      150.02,
                           150.04,
                           150.05
974            12-6-05     118.01 -
                           118.23; T.S.O. I
992            5-16-06     135.01 -
                           135.03
996            6-20-06     11.05
                           33.16,
997            6-20-06     33.17,
                           33.22
                           119.01 -
999            7-18-06     119.03,
                           119.99
1002           8-1-06      154.01 -
                           154.28
1005           9-5-06      111.17
1011           10-3-06     95.06
1012           10-17-06    71.111
1017           1-16-07     31.30
                           34.02,
                           37.01,
                           37.07,
1018           1-16-07     37.09,
                           37.11,
                           37.12,
                           37.13,
                           37.39
1026           5-1-07      31.21
1027           5-1-07      33.17
1028           5-1-07      33.21
1029           5-1-07      33.57
1030           5-1-07      35.48
1031           5-1-07      35.50
1032           5-1-07      70.035
1033           5-1-07      70.056
1034           5-1-07      71.016
1035           5-1-07      114.30
1037           6-5-07      134.03
1049           11-6-07     11.05
1057           5-6-08      91.08
1059           5-6-08      91.09
1061           6-17-08     150.01
1062           6-17-08     111.19
1064           7-15-08     91.08
1075           10-7-08     93.016
1076           10-21-08    31.21
1077           10-21-08    21.23
1078           10-21-08    33.23
1079           10-21-08    33.40
1081           11-4-08     71.111
1085           2-17-09     154.03,
                           154.19
1086           4-7-09      150.03
1088           4-7-09      32.03
1089           4-7-09      150.01
1090           4-7-09      33.22
1091           4-7-09      70.001
1095           10-20-09    150.60 -
                           150.69
1110           11-17-09    34.02
1120           4-6-10      111.17
1121           4-20-10     35.48
1122           4-20-10     130.02
1123           6-1-10      114.48
                           150.01,
1128           8-17-10     150.02,
                           150.04,
                           150.05
1131           11-2-10     72.58,
                           72.59
1137           2-1-11      95.32,
                           95.47
1143           5-3-11      95.05
1156           9-6-11      72.19,
                           72.25
                           95.13,
1160           12-20-11    95.15,
                           95.19 -
                           95.29
1161           1-17-12     35.03
1162           1-17-12     91.06
1163           1-17-12     114.02
1164           1-17-12     114.40
1165           1-17-12     114.41
1166           1-17-12     131.01
1167           2-7-12      32.08
                           72.16,
1177           6-19-12     72.24,
                           72.26,
                           72.27
1179           7-3-12      72.28
1187           1-15-13     113.01,
                           113.02
1188           1-15-13     132.02
1189           2-5-13      114.46
1194           7-2-13      95.11
1199           8-20-13     34.12
1204           1-17-12     115.001,
                           115.017
1205           11-17-13    11.05
1211           2-4-14      152.01
1216           6-3-14      35.30
1226           9-16-14     150.70,
                           150.73
1255           7-7-15      34.21
1256           7-7-15      133.01
1257           7-7-15      92.15
1270           3-15-16     150.01 -
                           150.05
1274           4-5-16      92.17,
                           92.21
1275           4-5-16      93.003
                           93.016,
1276           4-5-16      93.019,
                           93.020
1277           4-5-16      95.05
1278           4-5-16      130.01
1279           4-19-16     73.01
1280           4-19-16     93.025
1294           9-6-16      93.002
1314           8-15-17     35.46 -
                           35.48
1346           7-2-19      30.46,
                           30.47
1347           7-2-19      32.02
1348           7-2-19      34.26
1349           7-2-19      35.03
1350           7-2-19      70.042,
                           70.070
1351           7-2-19      71.053
                           92.15 -
1352           7-2-19      92.18,
                           92.21
1353           7-2-19      95.13,
                           95.15
                           114.02, 114.12,
1354           7-2-19      114.24,
                           114.30,
                           114.51
1355           7-2-19      117.15
1356           7-2-19      130.02
1357           7-2-19      133.01
1361           8-20-19     113.25 -
                           113.31
1362           8-20-19     113.01
1363           8-20-19     113.02
1364           8-20-19     113.05
                           113.40 -
1365           9-3-19      113.44,
                           113.46
1367           9-17-19     151.01,
                           151.02
                           71.095,
                           71.096,
1370           10-1-19     71.110,
                           71.111,
                           71.113,
                           71.114
1374           11-19-19    111.18,
                           111.19
1379           2-4-20      151.01,
                           151.02
1382           3-3-20      151.01,
                           151.02
1393           6-16-20     120.01 -
                           120.13
1399           10-20-20    30.16
1404           12-15-20    151.01,
                           151.02
1407           1-19-21     150.80 -
                           150.91
1413           2-16-21     131.09
1422           6-1-21      37.13
1426           9-7-21      70.040,
                           72.19
1434           12-7-21     95.18,
                           95.99
1435           12-7-21     11.05
1436           2-1-22      151.01,
                           151.02
1439           2-1-22      150.01 -
                           150.05
1440           2-1-22      30.46
1441           2-1-22      31.21
1442           2-1-22      32.02
1443           2-1-22      33.16,
                           33.57
                           35.09,
1444           2-1-22      35.47,
                           35.48,
                           35.50
                           95.15,
1445           2-1-22      95.32,
                           95.47
1446           2-1-22      119.01 -
                           119.03
1447           2-1-22      133.05
1449           4-5-22      151.01,
                           151.02
1461           10-18-22    113.55 - 113.63
                           30.15,
1465           12-6-22     30.41,
                           30.47
1466           12-6-22     31.22
                           33.15,
1467           12-6-22     33.16,
                           33.22
                           35.46 -
1468           12-6-22     35.48,
                           35.50
                           114.01,
                           114.02,
1469           12-6-22     114.24,
                           114.27,
                           114.30,
                           114.31
1470           12-6-22     130.02
1471           12-6-22     150.17
1472           12-20-22    151.01,
                           151.02
1476           3-7-2023    72.29
1479           5-2-2023    31.211
1482           5-16-2023   33.19
1483           5-16-2023   35.50
1498           9-19-23     90.03
1513           4-2-24      131.10
                           30.15,
1523           10-15-24    30.43,
                           30.46
                           31.01,
1524           10-15-24    31.04,
                           31.23,
                           31.30
1525           10-15-24    35.02,
                           35.50
1527           10-15-24    150.70
                          
 
