LITCHFIELD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 05-10, passed 6-8-2005
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Litchfield Code
of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Sherman County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of
Litchfield, Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
   copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who shall violate any of
the provisions of this municipal code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100. Whoever aids, abets, procures,
encourages, requests, advises or incites another to commit any act which is an
offense under this code or under any other ordinance of the municipality may be
prosecuted and punished as though he or she were the principal offender.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any
of the provisions of Title III, Title V, Title IX, Title XI or Title XIII of
this code, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 00-13, passed 6-9-2000)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk and shall bear the following inscription, “Village of
Litchfield, Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of
the said official seal to all warrants, ordinances and all other official
papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the Municipal
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401) (Ord. 99-05, passed 7-9-1999)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TAXES
      
35.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Village Board Chairperson; selection and duties
   
30.02   Village Board; organization
   
30.03   Village Board; powers
   
30.04   Standing committees
   
30.05   Elected officials; vacancy
   
30.06   Elected officials; vacancy due to unexcused absences
§ 30.01 VILLAGE BOARD CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily who shall hold the title
of Chairperson pro tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and the
Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 96-6, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 30.02 VILLAGE BOARD; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is
a citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of
his or her election and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire,
and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality.
   (B)   The Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of their office,
take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially discharge
the duties of their office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and
meet at the first regular meeting of the Board in December, organize and
appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 96-7, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE BOARD; POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for
licensing and regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to
prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and
regulate markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair and regulate
wharves and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to
provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale
in the village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in
addition to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the
peace, good government and welfare of the village, and its trade, commerce and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise such power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 1-103) (Ord. 00-12, passed 6-9-2000)
§ 30.04 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall, within four weeks after the
meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of
the incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board or place the issue of
filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time
the Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to fill
the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The Board shall vote upon
such nominee and, if a majority votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy
shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the
votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next
regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit
the names of qualified registered voters in nomination, and the Board shall
continue to vote upon such nominations until the vacancy is filled. All
Trustees present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of
the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the
same rights, including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in divisions (B) and (C) above,
call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to
fill such vacancies, except that the Board of Trustees of a village situated in
more than one county shall have power to fill by appointment any vacancy that
may occur in their number.
   (F)   No official who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 98-5, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 30.06 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall take a vote on whether to excuse a
member’s absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Village Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing
and direct the Village Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 03-01, passed 6-6-2003)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Intergovernmental risk management
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   Appointment; removal
   
31.16   Merger of offices
   
31.17   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.18   Municipal Clerk
   
31.19   Municipal Treasurer
   
31.20   Treasurer’s monthly report
   
31.21   Treasurer’s annual report
   
31.22   Municipal Attorney
   
31.23   Village Engineer; special engineer
   
31.24   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
31.25   Village Marshal
   
31.26   Municipal Fire Chief
   
31.27   Municipal Building Inspector
   
31.28   Municipal Electrical Inspector
   
31.29   Municipal Plumbing Inspector
Meetings
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.42   Notice to news media
   
31.43   Regular meetings
   
31.44   Special meetings
   
31.45   Emergency meetings
   
31.46   Closed sessions
   
31.47   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
31.48   Public participation
   
31.49   Order of business
   
31.50   Votes
   
31.51   Parliamentary procedure
   
31.52   Minutes
   
31.53   Change in office
   
31.54   Reorganizational meeting
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
31.65   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.66   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
31.67   Salaries of officials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering
upon their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which
shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
 
      “I,                                            , do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and
allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that
I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of                                        , according to law
and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.”
 
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.03 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   The governing body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb.
RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form,
become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The governing body may appoint a Municipal Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney,
Overseer of the Streets and Marshal.
   (B)   It shall also appoint a Board of Health consisting of three members,
the Chairperson of the Village Board, who shall be Chairperson, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the governing body has
appointed a Village Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board
and serve as secretary and quarantine officer.
   (C)   The governing body shall also appoint such additional officials and
employees as it may determine the municipality needs.
   (D)   All such appointees shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the advice and
consent of the remainder of the Board of Trustees. If the municipality has a
Municipal Water Commissioner, the Municipal Water Commissioner may at any time,
for sufficient cause, be removed from office by a two-thirds’ vote of the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 97-3, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 31.16 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.17 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
31.16 of this code.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.18 MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality, and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That
record shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year,
and the terms of the sale with each and every item and expense thereof. He or
she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or
other documents of the municipality kept and preserved in his or her office to
be taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be
entitled to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt
therefor. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the governing body shall order public work to be done at the
expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office.
      (2)   All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds, and draw, sign and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and committees
all resolutions, and communications which are directed at said officers,
employees or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Chairperson’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body.
      (2)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the governing body, the
Municipal Clerk shall prepare and publish the official proceedings of the
governing body in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality,
and which was duly designated as such by the governing body. Said publication
shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include
the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim and the name of the
claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item.
      (3)   Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles
and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to such job
titles shall be published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The charge for such
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state.
Said publication shall be charged against the General Fund.
      (4)   He or she shall then keep in a book with a proper index, copies of
all notices required to be published or posted by the Municipal Clerk by order
of the governing body, or under the ordinances of the municipality. To each of
the file copies of said notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of
publication, if said notices are required to be published, or the Municipal
Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are required to be posted only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies
of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body.
He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the State
Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, that the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-5-1993)
§ 31.19 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging to
the municipality. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the municipality
separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall keep a
separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits and credits
belonging thereto. His or her books and accounts shall always be open for
inspection by any citizen of the municipality whenever any municipal fiscal
record, audit, warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order, requisition, payroll
check, receipt or other record of receipt, cash or expenditure involving public
funds is involved. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants and
other evidences of debt against the municipality, whenever paid by the
Treasurer, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the Municipal
Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners and shall obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to
collection of delinquent taxes. The Treasurer shall adopt such bookkeeping
methods as the governing body shall prescribe. He or she shall invest and
collect all money owed by, or owed to, the municipality as directed by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-205) (Ord. 99-01, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 31.20 TREASURER’S MONTHLY REPORT.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and
such other times as the governing body may deem necessary, render an account to
the governing body under oath showing the financial state of the municipality
at that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom and the balance of money remaining in the Treasury. He or she shall
accompany said account with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. He or she shall
also produce depository evidence that all municipal money is in a solvent and
going bank in the name of the municipality.
   (B)   If the Municipal Treasurer shall neglect or fail for the space of ten
days from the end of each and every month to render his or her accounts as
aforesaid, the governing body shall, by resolution, declare the office vacant
and appoint some person to fill the vacancy. The Municipal Treasurer shall be
present at each regular meeting of the governing body, at which time he or she
shall read and file his or her monthly report.
(Prior Code, § 1-206)
§ 31.21 TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Treasurer to prepare annually, within
60 days following the close of its municipal year, a statement of the receipts
and expenditures by funds of the village for the preceding year. In detail, the
report shall include all receipts, disbursements, warrants outstanding and the
debit or credit balance of the municipality. Publication shall be by posting at
the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-207) (Ord. 99-02, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 31.22 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.23 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
§ 31.24 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is
in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all said municipal utilities and municipal streets. The
Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by the Chairperson and the
governing body. Any vacancy occurring in said office by death, resignation or
removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment
of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in said water system
shall be the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in connection with
producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the municipality. All
actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be
subject to the general directives and control of the governing body. The
Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory
authority over all employees of the water system which the governing body may
from time to time hire to operate and maintain said system. He or she shall at
the request of the governing body make a detailed report to the governing body
of the condition of said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants and
machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or she
may think proper. All monies expended for improvements, repairs or extensions
of said waterworks system shall be made only upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. He or she shall at the request of the governing body make a
detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the sewer system and
shall direct its attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions
and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall inspect and supervise all repairs
made to said system and have such other duties as the governing body may
delegate to him or her.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to
the orders and directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction
and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the
municipality and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the governing body make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and
bridges of the municipality and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall assume
such other duties as the governing body may direct.
      (4)   Park. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control
and supervision of the municipal park subject to the general control and
directives of the governing body. He or she shall, at the request of the
governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition
of the park and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repair,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such
other duties as the governing body may delegate to him or her.
      (5)   Dump. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control
and supervision of the municipal dump, subject to the general control and
directives of the governing body. Only trees and untreated wood will be
accepted and burned at the site. He or she shall, at the request of the
governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition
of the dump and shall direct its attention to such improvements, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall inspect and supervise all work done to
improve or extend the dump.
(Prior Code, § 1-210) (Ord. 99-03, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 31.25 VILLAGE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before the
proper officer and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 31.26 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)    The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before the first day in April and
October of each year, cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk and
the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in
good standing in the Department in order to obtain the exemptions provided by
law. He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire and for a period
of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for
hindering the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in a noisy
and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant in charge of operations at a
fire may command the services of any person present at any fire in
extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property. Failure to
obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief
shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into buildings and upon
all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose of examining the
same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(Prior Code, § 1-212) (Ord. 99-04, passed 7-9-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.27 MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings
and structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall
investigate all complaints whether they are verbal, written or in the form of a
petition alleging and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances
exists, and that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized, upon properly identifying
himself or herself, to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if
requested by the owner or occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all
complaints received, inspection reports, orders and complaints issued. The
records shall be available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare
an annual report including statistics based on the records kept.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the
furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration
or maintenance of a building, except where he or she is the owner of a
building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for any said dealer, or as an
agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector
shall report to the governing body as often as it may deem necessary and shall
have such other duties and issue such permits as it may direct. The Building
Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
§ 31.28 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to
the installation of electrical wiring and connections thereto. When acting in
good faith and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or
she shall not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act required by him or
her, or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   He or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, have authority to enter into any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such
other duties and issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The
Electrical Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)
§ 31.29 MUNICIPAL PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to
the installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith
and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall
not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue
to persons or property as the result of any act required by him or her or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   He or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties and
upon proper identification, have authority to enter into any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such
other duties and issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The
Plumbing Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
MEETINGS
§ 31.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
   OPEN MEETINGS ACT. Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
   PUBLIC BODY. 
      (1)   (a)   The governing body of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the PUBLIC BODY attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
(Ord. 93-2, passed 3-5-1993)
§ 31.41 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.42 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.43 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held within the first ten days
of each month at the hour of 4:00 p.m., notice of each regular meeting shall be
posted in advance in three public places.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 96-2, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 31.44 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the members of the Board of
Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a member of the Board known to be out of
the state or physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of
the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present, or if absent, by the President of the Board. In the absence of both
the Chairperson and the President of the Board, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any
special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
35.01 through
35.09 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 31.45 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment.
   (B)   The provisions of §
31.42 of this code shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.46 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual, and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a closed session
shall restrict its consideration of matters during the closed portions to only
those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed session.
The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any formal action may be
taken. For the purpose of this section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance given by members
of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions
authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest; or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 93-3, passed 3-5-1993; Ord. 95-1, passed 5-5-1995;
Ord. 05-01, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 31.47 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This section does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at or
travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which there
is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no vote or
other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-504.01) (Ord. 05-01, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 31.48 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.46 of this code, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 31.49 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 31.50 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.51 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the Board making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the yeas and nays shall be
taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by
the sponsor with the consent of the member of the Board seconding the
resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds’ vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 31.52 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.53 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 96-8, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 31.54 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place
of meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required. After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly
qualified, the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled
as Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate
his or her candidates for appointive offices, and said officers shall hold
office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson
shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Board, or
of its successors in office, and of each officer hereafter elected to any
office, to qualify prior to the first regular meeting of the Board in December
following his or her election. Immediately upon the assembly of the newly
elected Board upon the first regular meeting in December following the
election, each officer elected at the general election shall take possession of
his or her office.
   (C)   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by
filing the required bond, approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office of
the Municipal Clerk within two weeks from the date of his or her said
appointment; provided, that on said bond shall be endorsed the same oath as
required of a Trustee.
   (D)   Failure to qualify by elective or appointive officers within the time
and manner provided in this section shall and does in itself create a vacancy
in the office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been elected
or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 96-9, passed 4-9-1996)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 31.65 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
31.66 of this code.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.16 of this code, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of
Trustees, or any other board or commission having more than one member and the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times, the
compensation of all members of such board or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person
who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same
during the time for which he or she was elected if during the same time the
salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.66 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the number
of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract would
prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the issue,
then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
§ 31.67 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the village shall be
on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk and subject to public inspection
at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Commissions and Boards
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Housing Authority
Voluntary Fire Department
   
32.15   Operation and funding
   
32.16   Fire Chief
   
32.17   Membership
   
32.18   Records
   
32.19   Fires
   
32.20   Distant fires
   
32.21   Drills
   
32.22   Inspections
   
32.23   Notice of violation
   
32.24   Power of arrest
   
32.25   Fire investigation
Community Building
   
32.40   Ownership
   
32.41   Rentals
   
32.42   Rules and regulations
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of three members. The members of the Board shall include the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees, who shall serve as Chairperson, and two other members. One
member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found who is
willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall
be the Board’s medical advisor. If the governing body has appointed a Village
Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board and serve as
Secretary and quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed and unless removed
by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees. The members of the Board shall reorganize at the first meeting in
December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time to time,
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 97-14, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 32.02 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent with
the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings, records
and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the
agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by or prohibited under the provisions of the State Housing Agency
Act.
   (D)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees of the
agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the State
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 00-11, passed 6-9-2000)
VOLUNTARY FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
§ 32.16 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.17 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. The Fire Chief
shall appoint no more than 25 members for each fire department company subject
to the review and approval of the Board of Trustees. All vacancies shall be
filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code
or the laws of the state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the village for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and
other benefits. The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of
the Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in
an amount set by resolution.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the village’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person
serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The
coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be
an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the village.
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 04-01, passed 6-10-2004)
§ 32.18 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.19 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.20 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.21 DRILLS.
   The Municipal Voluntary Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills
at least six times per year at such times as the members of the Voluntary Fire
Department shall decide.
(Prior Code, § 3-408)
§ 32.22 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire Department is established or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees where no Fire Department exists, at all
reasonable hours, may enter into all buildings and upon all premises within his
or her jurisdiction for the purposes of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS
81-501.01 through 81-531; the State Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969,
being Neb. RS 81-542 et seq.; the Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances
Storage and Handling Act, being Neb. RS 81-15,117 et seq.; and any other
statutory duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the village code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after such an order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting a review and it
shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same within not less
than five days nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed
in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall then affirm,
modify or rescind the order as safety and justice may require and the decision
shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may
have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it
is evident that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a
variance due to the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of
the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire
Chief and the owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.24 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.25 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of
the fire, furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
COMMUNITY BUILDING
§ 32.40 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal community building through
the governing body. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the management, maintenance and improvements on the municipal community
building, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax
shall be known as the Community Building Fund and shall include all gifts,
grants, deed of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the municipal community building. The Community Building Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing body shall
have the power to hire and supervise such employees as they may deem necessary
and shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the community
building as may be proper for its efficient management.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
§ 32.41 RENTALS.
   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the community building,
make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of
the community building. The governing body shall prescribe rules and
regulations for such rentals. Rental rates may be structured for classes of
persons and organizations in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein
shall be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race,
creed, color or national origin in the classification of persons and
organizations for rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
§ 32.42 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The governing body shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of the municipal community building and the
safety of those using the community building facilities. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations. All
damage suffered by the community building during any rental shall be assessed
against the person or organization responsible for the rental thereof or shall
be deducted from the damage deposit which the governing body may in its
discretion have required prior to said rental. The governing body may require,
during any rental, persons deputized as municipal police to ensure that said
rules and regulations and the municipal code is not violated. The wages of such
persons shall be set by the governing body and shall be paid prior to the
beginning of the rental period. All rental fees, rules and regulations shall be
on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk at any
reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-953) (Prior Code, § 3-603)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   General provisions
   
33.02   Election of officers; certifications required
   
33.03   Term of office
   
33.04   Elections; joint, general
   
33.05   Notice
   
33.06   Special election
   
33.07   Filing fee
   
33.08   Petition, write-in and other candidates
   
33.09   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.10   Election of Board of Trustees
   
33.11   Ballots
   
33.12   Board of Trustees; terms; qualifications
   
33.13   Exit polls; poll watchers
   
33.14   Elections held at large
§ 33.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance
of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal
offices or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and
state law does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election.
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code
or bylaws of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-701.01) (Ord. 05-02, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 33.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 96-10, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 00-05, passed 6-9-
2000; Ord. 05-02, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 33.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the municipality shall serve a term of four years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Neb. RS 17-107.02(2)) (Prior Code, § 1-702)
§ 33.04 ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL.
   (A)   The general municipal election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 32. The governing body has determined, by ordinance
duly adopted, to hold the municipal election in conjunction with the statewide
primary election, held on the first Tuesday after the second Monday in May of
each even-numbered year.
   (B)   Prior to February 1 of the year in which the first such joint election
takes place, the governing body shall receive the consent in writing of the
County Board to so hold the election and such authorization shall be prescribed
according to state law.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall have charge of the election and shall have the
authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk for municipal election purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
§ 33.05 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.06 SPECIAL ELECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be
subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including
the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue.
      (4)   The election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk. The ballots, including absentee ballots, shall be counted and
canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon
completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the
same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-706) (Ord. 97-10, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 04-03, passed 6-10-
2004)
§ 33.07 FILING FEE.
   Every candidate for the office of the Board of Trustees shall, upon filing
for said office, notify the Municipal Clerk and at the option of the governing
body pay a fee of $10 to the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-707) (Ord. 99-06, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 33.08 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in this section or files as a write-in candidate as
prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, or residing in the municipality, if candidates are not chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608.
The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the ward in which the officer is to be elected or in the
municipality, as appropriate.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality, not to
exceed 2,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 98-6, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-6-
2003)
§ 33.09 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
§ 33.10 ELECTION OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Board of Trustee members shall be elected from the municipality at large
unless the residents of the municipality have voted to elect their Board
members by wards. Board members shall serve for a term of four years and shall
be a resident and qualified elector. If the election of Board members takes
place by wards, each nominee for Board member shall be a resident and qualified
elector of the ward for which he or she is a candidate, and only residents of
that ward may sign the candidates’ nomination petitions.
(Neb. RS 5-108) (Prior Code, § 1-712)
§ 33.11 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election, and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
§ 33.12 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large unless the registered voters of the municipality have
voted to elect their Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202 and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Prior Code, § 1-716) (Ord. 96-11, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 33.13 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.14 ELECTIONS HELD AT LARGE.
   All elections in the village shall be elections held at large.
(Neb. RS 5-108) (Prior Code, § 1-718)
CHAPTER 34: FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.02   Expenditures
   
34.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.04   Warrants
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Special assessment fund
   
34.07   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.08   Deposit of funds
   
34.09   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.10   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
34.11   Bond issues
   
34.12   Credit cards and electronic funds transfers; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   “Public funds” defined
   
34.27   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification
   
34.29   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
34.30   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
34.31   Budget procedures
   
34.32   Appropriations
   
34.33   Transfer of funds
   
34.34   Revision of budget
Tax Levies
   
34.45   Property tax; certification of amount
   
34.46   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
34.47   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.48   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment.
   
34.49   Motor vehicle tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
municipal fiscal year.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk; and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-815) (Ord. 03-10, passed 6-6-2003)
§ 34.02 EXPENDITURES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of which
such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the provisions of
§
34.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
§ 34.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Twenty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Forty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Eighty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity,
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action, or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to, life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body:
When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same
seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to
the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162; or when the
contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. RS
48-1503.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the Federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-814) (Ord. 98-17, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 34.04 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.07 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided, that in the event of a donation of real
estate, the Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real
estate donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions
of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
Village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in office
shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of submission
but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this
section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
34.10. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund or
sinking funds accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided, that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
§ 34.08 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the Board of
Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution or
qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a member of the
Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall not disqualify
such bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial
institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions: A bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; or, in lieu
thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to
secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees
shall approve such bond or giving of security. The Village Treasurer shall not
be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any
such depository so designated and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 98-15, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 03-09, passed 6-6-
2003; Ord. 04-05, passed 6-10-2004)
§ 34.09 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the governing body
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state to the
extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   (1)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal
Treasurer shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and
payment of such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to
the municipality and be approved by the Chairperson. The bond shall be
conditioned that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render
to the Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances,
the amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the
amount of the accretion thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be
conditioned that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be
required by the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law
or adopted by the governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and
shall faithfully discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall
be as nearly as practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304.
      (2)   No person in any way connected with any depository as an officer or
stockholder shall be accepted as a surety on any bond given by the depository
of which he or she is an officer or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited
with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to the
Municipal Clerk. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal to or greater than
the amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of such deposit insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital
stock financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given
by the bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss sustained by reason
of the failure of any such bonded depository whose bond has been duly approved
by the Chairperson as provided in division (B) above or which has, in lieu of a
surety bond, given security as provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-827) (Ord. 98-16, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 34.10 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess
of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the state investment officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council. Nothing in
this division (D) shall be construed to authorize investments in venture
capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 34.11 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
§ 34.12 CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The governing body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the governing body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The governing body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the governing body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   (1)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card
payments, the governing body shall be authorized but not required to impose a
surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or
charge card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) above.
      (2)   The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the municipality by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of such surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
such person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the municipal official shall be authorized but not required to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER means the
movement of funds by non-paper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Prior Code, § 1-830) (Ord. 03-08, passed 6-6-2003)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 96-12, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 34.26 “PUBLIC FUNDS” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. For purposes of a county, city or village which
has a lottery established under the County and City Lottery Act, only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the county, city or village from a
licensed lottery operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS
shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 95-3, passed 5-5-1995)
§ 34.27 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement
on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to
publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the governing body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The municipality shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures plus the necessary
required cash reserve for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 94-1, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 97-11, passed 8-8-1997;
Ord. 98-9, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 01-02, passed 4-6-2001; Ord. 03-05, passed 6-
6-2003)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Prior Code, § 1-803) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 03-06, passed 6-6-
2003)
§ 34.29 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately: The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or
interest on bonds issued by the governing body; and the amount to be levied for
all other purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section, ANTICIPATED
LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a
taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is
still pending. Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify
an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in
the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 94-2, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 96-13, passed 4-9-1996;
Ord. 97-12, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 98-11, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 34.30 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the governing body in
September, the governing body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) below,
such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount
expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget
year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the governing body that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
governing body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 95-4, passed 5-5-1995)
§ 34.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.32 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 94-3, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 96-14, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 34.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year, it becomes apparent to the
governing body that, due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the governing body may by a majority
vote, unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds
to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
34.34 of this code, or by state law.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any officer or officers of the governing body to
obligate funds contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-828) (Ord. 00-08, passed 6-9-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.34 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the governing body may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the governing body that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The governing body has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality. Such published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the governing body, the
governing body shall file with the Clerk of the county or counties in which
such governing body is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy
of the revised budget, as adopted. The governing body may then issue warrants
in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. Such
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
a governing body may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a governing body shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the governing body shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the Clerk of the county or counties in which such
governing body is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
governing body may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized
by the budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-829) (Ord. 00-08, passed 6-9-2000; Ord. 02-02, passed 10-4-
2002; Ord. 03-07, passed 6-6-2003)
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.45 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-812) (Ord. 98-12, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 34.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Board of Trustees passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least
five days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 97-13, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 98-14, passed 10-8-
1998; Ord. 00-06, passed 6-9-2000)
§ 34.47 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the municipality for fiscal
years beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set
forth in this division (A), except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below.
The municipality may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation
of property subject to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the municipality’s share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include
amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201,
museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse
or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or
monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments obtained
against the municipality which require or obligate the municipality to pay such
judgment, to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the municipality, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public airport to retire
interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
divisions (C) or (D) below.
   (B)   (1)   All airport authorities established under the Cities Airport
Authorities Act and community redevelopment authorities established under the
Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as authorized by law
which are authorized by the municipality and are counted in the municipality’s
levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such limitation shall
not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the municipality
may be exceeded as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444. On or before August 1, all
political subdivisions subject to municipal levy authority under this division
(B) shall submit a preliminary request for levy allocation to the Board of
Trustees. The preliminary request of the political subdivision shall be in the
form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of members present of the
political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a political subdivision
to make a preliminary request shall preclude such political subdivision from
using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to exceed the final levy
allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The municipality may exceed the limits provided in division (A)
above by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of
registered voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election
at which the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the
limits must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be
the first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   (a)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy
which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above
and the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall
not have a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling
for a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The County
Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an
election as called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days
after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held
pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the
form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631. Any excess levy authority
approved under this division (C) shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a
vote of the Board of Trustees to terminate the authority to levy more than the
limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year following the first year in which
the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided in division (E) below, whichever is
earliest.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution
calling for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar
year. Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a
petition initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any
terms and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include
the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444. If a majority of the votes cast upon
the ballot question are in favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize
a tax in excess of the limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not
exceed the amount stated in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting
on the ballot question are opposed to such tax, the Board of Trustees shall not
impose such tax. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner may set a uniform
date for a special election to be held before October 10, 1998, to submit the
issue of exceeding the limits provided in Neb. RS 77-3442, or the final levy
allocation as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443, to the voters of political
subdivisions in the county seeking additional levy authority.
         (c)   The municipality may individually or in conjunction with one or
more other political subdivisions conduct a special election on a date
different from that set by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner, except
that the Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution calling for a special
election for this purpose and deliver a copy of the resolution to the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the
election.
   (D)   In lieu of the election procedures in division (C) above, the
municipality may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above
for a period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the municipality,
called after notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality at least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the
registered voters residing in the municipality shall constitute a quorum for
purposes of taking action to exceed the limits. If a majority of the registered
voters present at the meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of
the record of that action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to
October 10, and the County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the
residents for the year. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote against exceeding the limits or final allocation, the limit or
allocation shall not be exceeded and the municipality shall have no power to
call for an election under division (C) above.
   (E)   (1)   The municipality may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
municipality; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 98-13, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 00-07, passed 6-9-
2000)
§ 34.48 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
34.47 of this code, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of
$1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in
the village. Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay
bonded indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to
such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.49 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The governing body of the village may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned
or used in such village, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the
county in which such village is located when the registration fees as provided
in Neb. RS 60-329 through 60-339 are paid. Such taxes shall be credited by the
County Treasurer to the road fund of such village. Such funds shall be used by
such village for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining or improving streets,
roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof, for the amortization of bonded
indebtedness when created for such purposes.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (Prior Code, § 1-823)
CHAPTER 35: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
35.01   Grant of power
   
35.02   Introduction of ordinances
   
35.03   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
35.04   Ordinances; style, title
   
35.05   Bylaws; reading; passage
   
35.06   Publication or posting
   
35.07   Certificate of publication or posting
   
35.08   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
35.09   Amendments and revisions
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 35.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the municipality and
its trade, commerce and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 97-4, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 35.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of
the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602) (Ord. 97-5, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 35.03 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
35.02 of this code for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the
resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority
vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any
resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 35.04 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Litchfield, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 35.05 BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   (A)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend
this requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory.
   (B)   In case such requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by
title and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may
require a reading of any ordinance in full before enactment under either
procedure set out in this section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for
the appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or
adoption the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the governing
body.
   (C)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the governing body, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the governing body shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded.
   (D)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a municipality which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the
public.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 95-2, passed 5-5-1995; Ord. 97-6, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 35.06 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 97-7, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 35.07 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 35.08 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality.
   (C)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths’ vote of the governing body, and be entered of record on the
Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 97-8, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 35.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 97-9, passed 8-8-1997)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Billing
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.04   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
   
50.05   Meter tampering; unauthorized reconnection prohibited; evidence
§ 50.01 BILLING.
   Utility bills shall be a joint bill for utilities including water, sewer and
trash and shall be due and payable by the first day of the month at the office
of the Municipal Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to compute
or cause to be computed a joint utility bill for each month according to the
appropriate provisions of this code. It shall be the duty of all utilities
customers to cause to be mailed or to present themselves at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and pay their bill for all utility charges. Bills shall be
deemed delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth day of the month. A late payment
penalty, to be set by the Village Board, will be added to each delinquent bill.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 96-4, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 04-15, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall not discontinue utility service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the municipality first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends and holidays
excluded.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 97-15, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing;
         (b)   Tampering; or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
      (2)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (3)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (4)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(3)(a) or (B)(3)
(b) above, the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs
incurred on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
including, but not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls,
equipment, costs of the suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the
scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 03-12, passed 6-6-2003)
§ 50.04 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes or rent assessed by the Board of Trustees shall
be a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is used
or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and
such lien enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
direct and provide.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the Board of Trustees shall be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which such water is used or supplied. Such
lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Board or Trustees provides by
ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the Board of Trustees for the use
of any village sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due,
such sum may be recovered by the village in a civil action or it may be
certified to the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and
collected or returned in the same manner as other village taxes are certified,
assessed, collected and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the Village Clerk shall report to the Board a list of all unpaid accounts
due for utilities service together with a description of the premises served.
If the Board approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
§ 50.05 METER TAMPERING; UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 98-22, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 03-11, passed 6-6-
2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Trash and waste
   
51.03   Dead animals
   
51.04   Burning prohibited
   
51.05   Municipal dumping grounds; established
Solid Waste Disposal
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Collection
   
51.22   Collection equipment required
   
51.23   Contracts for service
   
51.24   Licensed facilities
   
51.25   Private collection services prohibited
   
51.26   Disposal of hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
   
51.27   Bills
   
51.28   Lien
   
51.29   Single premises
   
51.30   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal
   
51.31   Mandatory service
   
51.32   Rates
   
51.33   Violation
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 51.02 TRASH AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless
the same is kept in receptacles that have been designated and approved in any
garbage collection contract which the municipality has entered into pursuant to
§
51.23 of this code. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets,
alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass,
refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish,
waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall remove the same from their
property within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Municipal Police
Chief who shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage,
rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a
short period of time shall be required to place the same in receptacles that
have been provided pursuant to any garbage contract entered into by the
municipality under §
51.23 of this code.
(Neb. RS 19-2106) (Prior Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of groundwater that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants.
(Neb. RS 17-207) (Prior Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn trash, garbage, leaves, brush or any other solid waste
of any kind out of doors within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 MUNICIPAL DUMPING GROUNDS; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The governing body shall, from time to time, by resolution or order,
designate, regulate and control the municipal dumping grounds, either within or
without the corporate limits of the municipality, upon which shall be dumped
only trees and untreated wood, to be burned at the site. It shall be unlawful
for any person to dump materials, other than trees and untreated wood on the
municipal dumping grounds.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the municipal dumping grounds may each year levy
a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the municipality that
is subject to taxation.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any waste materials and
garbage of any nature on any other place within the corporate limits or within
the jurisdiction of the municipality for the regulation of health. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to use the dumping grounds for the purpose of discarding
dead animals or any materials deemed to be hazardous or toxic waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-701) (Ord. 99-15, passed 7-9-1999) Penalty, see §
51.99
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid or liquid waste, or combination of solid and liquid
wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible, illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
or animal health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   SOLID WASTE. All garbage, trash, rubbish or refuse commonly generated by
residential, commercial, institutional or governmental activities.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-207.01)
(Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 95-7, passed 5-5-1995)
§ 51.21 COLLECTION.
   The village shall provide for the collection and disposal of nonhazardous
solid wastes from residential, commercial, institutional and governmental
premises within the municipal limits of the village. Such wastes shall be
collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only in a
licensed landfill facility which meets all state and federal criteria.
(Prior Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.22 COLLECTION EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Solid waste shall be collected only in vehicles equipped with a trash bed
constructed of substantial metal material, and such bed shall be completely
enclosed. The body and bed of any vehicle used in the collection or
transportation of solid wastes shall be maintained in a clean and odor-free
condition. Before any person, firm or corporation may engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting nonhazardous solid waste within the
village, they shall demonstrate to the Mayor and Board that they currently own
or have made proper provision for all required equipment.
(Prior Code, § 4-209) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.23 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The village may contract with an independent contractor to provide for
the collection and disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. Such contractor shall
be selected by competitive bidding and the length of the term of any such
contract shall be determined by the Mayor and Board, not to exceed five years.
Any such contractor shall enter into a written agreement with the village,
which agreement shall provide for the rates to be charged by the contractor and
such other terms and conditions as may be required by the Mayor and Board.
   (B)   The contractor shall be responsible for selection of a licensed
disposal facility in which to dispose of nonhazardous solid waste collection
within the village and for any contract for disposal service in such facility.
(Prior Code, § 4-210) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.24 LICENSED FACILITIES.
   All nonhazardous solid waste collected within the village shall be disposed
of only in a licensed solid waste facility. Any hazardous waste shall be
disposed of only in the manner provided by state or federal laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-211) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.25 PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation who is not under contract with the village
shall collect or dispose of residential nonhazardous solid waste within the
village, except yard wastes, grass clippings, tree branches or materials which
are collected for recycling.
(Prior Code, § 4-212) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the village who generates or creates
hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling or disposal as specified in
§§
51.03 or
51.30 of this code shall be responsible for the transportation and disposal of
the same. All such handling and disposal shall in all respects comply with
state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the specific type of waste
generated.
(Prior Code, § 4-213) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.27 BILLS.
   Bills for solid waste removal service shall be due and payable monthly at
the office of the Municipal Clerk. The governing body has the power and
authority to fix the rates to be paid for solid waste removal service. Service
fees shall be a part of a joint utilities bill and shall be collected in
conjunction with the water bill by following the procedures set forth in §
50.01 of this code. In the event that a customer fails to pay his or her
garbage bill as required, the bill shall be deemed delinquent and subject to
the provisions of §
50.02 of this code. Effective date of service is September 1, 1993.
(Prior Code, § 4-214) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.28 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for solid waste collection service furnished, such
amount due, together with any charges in arrears, shall be considered
delinquent and are hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of solid waste
collection fees. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on June 1 of each
year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
solid waste collection together with a description of the premises for which
the same was furnished. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the
governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk
to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-215) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.29 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No person shall accept from any other person any of such other person’s
disposable solid waste to be commingled with and disposed of as a part of the
accepting person’s solid waste. All solid waste which is to be picked up by the
village or its contractor for each residence and for each commercial,
institutional or governmental building shall be only the solid waste which is
generated at that site and shall not include any items left for disposal by
another person.
(Prior Code, § 4-216) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal:
      (1)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified;
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (3)   Waste oil;
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are non-recyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-2039;
      (5)   Discarded household appliances; and/or
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the State
Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAND DISPOSAL. Includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      NON-RECYCLABLE TIRE. A press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic shaped tire
or a foam pneumatic tire.
      WASTE TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
      YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-217) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 04-06, passed 6-10-
2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 MANDATORY SERVICE.
   Every occupied residence and every commercial, institutional and
governmental building in which day to day activities are conducted within the
municipal limits of the village, shall be served by the village’s solid waste
collection and disposal service and shall be subject to the assessment and
payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by the governing
body. The village may also agree to provide service to persons who do not live
within the village limits but who are served by municipal utility services of
any kind or who are within such close distance to the village limits as to make
such service economical and practical for the village and its contracted
hauler.
(Prior Code, § 4-218) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.32 RATES.
   (A)   Each customer who is served by the municipal solid waste collection
service shall pay a basic monthly rate. Each customer shall be liable for the
basic monthly rate unless a notification has been filed with the village office
to discontinue service.
   (B)   Bills for solid waste collection and disposal shall be rendered and
collected as provided in §
51.27 of this code. Any additional service which is required by any customer
shall be negotiated between the customer and the contractor and shall be at the
customer’s own expense. Customers shall provide access to their property so
that the contractor can use its equipment to collect solid wastes.
(Prior Code, § 4-219) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 51.33 VIOLATION.
   Complaints regarding the violation of the terms of a contract entered into
for exclusive franchise agreement by the contractor shall be directed to the
contractor by the village in writing and the contractor shall have 30 days
within which to correct said violations. If violations are not corrected, then
the Village Board of Trustees may vote to revoke said contract at a regular or
special Village Board of Trustees meeting, providing that the contractor has
been given notice of by certified mail at least seven days prior to such
meeting. Revocation of said contract shall be deemed effective by sending such
notice to the contractor, by certified mail, stating the date that service is
terminated, after the Village Board of Trustees has voted for revocation.
(Prior Code, § 4-220) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person, firm or
corporation in the village or its zoning area to conduct or operate any type of
dump or waste disposal system for the use of themselves or other persons. Each
day of operation or conduct of such waste disposal system or transfer site or
other means of disposing garbage with the village shall constitute a separate
violation by said person, firm or corporation punishable by a fine of $100 each
violation.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty in division (B)(1) above, any person,
firm or corporation within the village which conducts, operates or uses any
type of dump or waste disposal system for themselves or other persons, other
than the village’s solid waste disposal service shall also be subject to a
noncompliance fee of up to $500 pursuant to the provisions of the Integrated
Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2023(1).
(Prior Code, § 4-220) (Ord. 93-8, passed 7-20-1993)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation
   
52.07   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.08   Water bills
   
52.09   Lien
   
52.10   Single premises
   
52.11   Restricted use
   
52.12   Fire hydrants
   
52.13   Pollution
   
52.14   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.15   Water service
   
52.16   Police reports
   
52.17   Inspection
   
52.18   Destruction of property
   
52.19   Swing valve required
   
52.20   Deposit
   
52.21   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance; testing
   
52.22   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system; potential
backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
52.23   Vacuum breaker requirement on hose attachable yard hydrants and spigots
   
52.24   Rates; fees; collections
Water Wells and Other Facilities
   
52.35   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities
   
52.36   Wellhead protection area
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department
through the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue
from said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body. Rates shall be set by the governing body.
   (C)   The rates shall be on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 99-08, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must file an application
with the Utilities Superintendent or Village Clerk. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by §
52.20 of this code. Water shall not be supplied to any house or private service
pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 04-11, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701) (Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality through its Water Department shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installation procedure.
      (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must
be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience
to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered.
      (2)   The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is
completed and the service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to
notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for
such installation by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that said rules,
regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Installation expense.
      (1)   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main, installing
the meter and the stop box. No person other than the Utilities Superintendent
or his or her duly authorized agent shall tap the water main. The customer
shall pay a tap fee in such sum as the Utilities Superintendent shall require
in each case; provided, that a tap for a three-quarter inch pipe shall be
deemed to be the minimum or base tap fee.
      (2)   The customer shall at his or her own expense bring water service
from the main up to and upon his or her own premises, excluding the cost of the
meter and stop box. Nonresidents shall pay such tap fees and installation
charges in such sums as the Utilities Superintendent, pursuant to resolution of
the governing body, shall in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains
into unsupplied territory within the corporate limits, may be made by means of
water extension districts.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 52.07 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, the curb
stop, the stop box and all fittings required for connection of copper tubing at
the main. The customer shall bear the expense of all other costs that are
necessary to bring water service from the main to the place of dispersement.
   (B)   When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall
shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 99-09, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 52.08 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Municipal Clerk
to charge and collect from each consumer the amount due the Water Department
for water fees, with any other charges properly itemized. It shall be the duty
of consumers to pay their bills promptly at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   Bills shall be due by the first day of the month and shall be deemed
delinquent on the fifteenth day of the month. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written notice
to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately. If
payment is not received the Municipal Clerk shall follow the procedures set
forth in §
50.02 of this code to discontinue service to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 96-3, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 04-13, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 52.09 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on June 1 of each
year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
water together with a description of the premises upon which the same was used.
The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a
special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-538) (Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 52.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) (Ord. 99-11, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 52.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-114)
§ 52.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department, to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.13 POLLUTION.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the Municipal Water System.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.15 WATER SERVICE.
   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall notify the
Utilities Superintendent. If any consumer shall move from the premises where
service is furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall
cause the water service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should
fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time
until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 99-12, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 52.16 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.17 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.18 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.19 SWING VALVE REQUIRED.
   To prevent the siphoning of water from a structure back into the Municipal
Water System when it becomes necessary to disrupt water service and to prevent
damage to customer’s property caused by such siphoning, all customers applying
for new water service and all customers presently serviced may be required in
the discretion of the Utilities Superintendent to have placed on the line a
swing valve (backflow prevention device) of such size and at such location as
is approved by the Utilities Superintendent. If a present customer is required
to place a swing valve on his or her line, the Municipal Clerk or Utilities
Superintendent shall give the property owner notice by personally serving
written notice or by registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last
known address of such owner or the agent of such owner, directing the placement
of such swing valve. If within 30 days of mailing or giving such notice, the
property owner fails or neglects to cause such placements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such water line. Reasons for requiring swing valves
includes, but is not limited to, installation of an underground sprinkler
system, installations or replacement of a water heater and installation or
replacement of a water softener.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.20 DEPOSIT.
   A security deposit in the amount of $100 shall be required to commence water
service to any new location, whether residential, commercial or any other
specified location, where the applicant is not the owner. Said deposit shall be
kept on file by the Municipal Clerk and shall be returned to the renter or
tenant after one year of service if the customer is current with his, her or
their account, otherwise it shall be applied against any unpaid balance owed by
the renter or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 04-14, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 52.21 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department shall install and
maintain a properly located backflow prevention device at the customer’s
expense appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in Title 179, State
Department of Health and approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve the application if such
installation will protect the municipal water distribution system from
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator, if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 93-6, passed 3-5-1993)
§ 52.22 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; POTENTIAL
BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 93-7, passed 3-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 VACUUM BREAKER REQUIREMENT ON HOSE ATTACHABLE YARD HYDRANTS AND
SPIGOTS.
   To prevent the backsiphonage or backflow from potential hazards as set forth
in Title 179 Neb. Admin. Code, State Department of Health, the municipality and
the Utilities Superintendent hereby require all real property owners and
customers to install vacuum breaker devices, at his or her expense, on all
outside hose attachable yard hydrants and spigots in order to assist the
village in protecting the municipal water supply system from contamination or
hazards.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 98-21, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 52.24 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Fees and collections. The governing body has the power and authority
to fix the rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from
the Water Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at
the office of the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall bill the consumers
and collect all money received by the municipality on the account of the Water
Department and shall faithfully account for all revenue collected by him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
   (B)   Minimum rates.
      (1)   All water consumers shall be liable for the following rates
provided by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order,
direct the Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in
which case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the
water is turned on again. A charge of $36 shall be assessed the consumer prior
to water being turned back on.
      (2)   The following schedule of rates for water service for each consumer
computed on a one month basis based on a monthly consumption is hereby
established, ordained and approved by the governing body: Minimum per meter,
per month: $12 plus $1.15 per 1,000 gallons of usage.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
(Ord. 99-10, passed 7-9-1999; Ord. 04-12, passed 9-8-2004)
WATER WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES
§ 52.35 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permit required.   From and after the effective date of this section,
it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill
and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate limits of
the village without first having obtained the proper permit from the governing
body: Potable water well; any other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal
field for water; cesspool; dumping grounds; feedlots; livestock pasture or
corral; chemical product storage facility; petroleum product storage facility;
pit toilet; sanitary, landfill; septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wet
well.
   (B)   Procedure to obtain permit. In order to obtain a permit to drill and/
or operate any of the facilities listed in division (A) above, the owner of the
property on which the proposed facility is to be located must make application
on the proper form provided by the governing body of the village. Such
application must be presented to the Village Board of Trustees at any regular
or special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above described facilities, the Village Board of
Trustees shall approve or deny said permit.
   (C)   Designated distance from municipal water sources. Under no
circumstances shall the Village Board of Trustees approve any permit to drill
or operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from any municipal water well:
Category Distance
Category                                     Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste       500 feet
Cesspool                                     500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage        500 feet
Corral                                       500 feet
Dump                                         500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                    500 feet
Non-potable water well                       1,000 feet
Pit toilet                                   500 feet
Sanitary landfill                            500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                    100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                          100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently watertight) 10 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                       100 feet
Septic tank                                  500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                       500 feet
Sewage wet well                              500 feet
 
   (D)   Penalties and abatement procedure. In the event any of the above
described facilities are installed or operated without first having obtained a
permit from the village and/or within the designated number of feet from any
municipal water supply, then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the
governing body shall abate such facility as a public nuisance. In addition
thereto, any person violating any of the terms of this section is hereby
determined to be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor as the same is defined by
state statute. The penalty for such violation shall be that as defined by state
law for the violation of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 02-20, 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water or well
field.
   (B)   The Village Board designates a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of protection of the public water supply system. The boundaries of the
wellhead protection area are set forth and the delineation is based upon a map
prepared by the State Department of Environmental Quality and presented to the
village. The map shall become and is incorporated into the terms of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 03-16, passed 6-6-2003)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Application for permit
   
53.003   Sewer contract
   
53.004   Sewer service
   
53.005   Installation expense
   
53.006   Repairs and replacement
   
53.007   Rate setting
   
53.008   Surcharges
   
53.009   Collection of sewer use fees
   
53.010   User charge review
   
53.011   User notification
   
53.012   Classification
   
53.013   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Public Sewers Required
   
53.025   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.026   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.027   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
53.028   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
53.040   When applicable
   
53.041   Permit required
   
53.042   Permit, when effective; inspections
   
53.043   Specifications
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.055   Expense
   
53.056   Single premises
Sewer Use
   
53.070   User charge; revenue
   
53.071   Charges to users
   
53.072   Charges; billing
   
53.073   Review of charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the operation, maintenance and repairing of any sewer or water
utilities in the municipality, the governing body may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all
taxable property in the municipality. The governing body may establish a user
charge system based on actual use and revise the charges if necessary. The
revenue from the tax or user charge shall be known as the Utilities Fund and
shall be used for the purpose of maintenance, operation and repairs of the
water and sewer system.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 98-18, passed 10-8-1998)
§ 53.002 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the governing body. Sewer service may
not be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the
Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer service to any
person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 53.003 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall
again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.004 SEWER SERVICE.
   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall notify the
Utilities Superintendent. If any customer shall move from the premises where
service is furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall
cause the sewer service to be shut off from said premises. If the customer
should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time
until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 99-13, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 53.005 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee which compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may
direct the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer
shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required
as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 53.006 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.007 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate
based on water usage for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by the
governing body. The rates shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-509) (Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.008 SURCHARGES.
   In addition to other elements of the total user charge system in §§
53.070 through
53.072 of this code, the ordinance on file with the Municipal Clerk shall
provide for the following surcharges:
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant. (See Appendix
B of 40 C.F.R. § 35.900); and
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.009 COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   Sewer use fees shall be part of a joint utilities bill and shall be
collected in conjunction with the water bill by following the procedures set
forth in §
50.01 of this code. In the event that a customer fails to pay his or her sewer
bill as required, the bill shall be deemed delinquent and subject to the
provisions of §
50.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.010 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The governing body shall review, at least annually, the user charge system
and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.011 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified of the rate and that portion of the user charges
ad valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment if needed.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 99-14, passed 7-9-1999)
§ 53.012 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify, for the purpose of rental fees, the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such
classifications are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any
consumer or group of consumers. The classification must be approved by the
Environmental Protection Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 53.013 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.025 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.026 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.027 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.028 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 53.040 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of this subchapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in this subchapter, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.041 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.042 PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions
are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.043 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Public
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.055 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.056 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
SEWER USE
§ 53.070 USER CHARGE; REVENUE.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the village may by ordinance designate to be paid by the
user charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works
shall be established by ordinance.
   (B)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in
Article XII shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for specific purposes of defraying operation
and maintenance cost excluding replacement of the treatment works (operation
and maintenance account).
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (replacement
account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made at least annually
from the operation, maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $5,700
annually.
   (C)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and
the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 9-611)
§ 53.071 CHARGES TO USERS.
   (A)   The classes of users and charges for those classes may be changed by
resolution of the Village Board. The resolution passed by the village shall
include a schedule, class of users and schedule of charges. A copy of said
schedule shall always be available at the office of the Village Clerk. The
Village Board may, by contract, agree to special terms with certain users in
special cases.
   (B)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the costs of managing the effluent or the sludge from the village’s
treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-612)
§ 53.072 CHARGES; BILLING.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly, a joint billing including water,
sewer and trash and shall be due and payable by the fifteenth of the month at
the office of the Village Clerk. Bills shall be deemed delinquent if not paid
by the thirtieth day of the month.
   (B)   A late payment penalty, to be set by the Village Board, will be added
to each delinquent bill. When a bill is 30 days in default, rendition of water
and/or sewer service to such premises shall be discontinued subject to the
provisions as set forth in §
50.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-613) (Ord. 96-5, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 53.073 REVIEW OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The village will review the user charge system, at least every two
years and revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system
generates adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance
including replacement and that the system continues to provide for the
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement
costs among users and user classes.
   (B)   The village will notify each user of any rate increases being charged
for operation and maintenance, including replacement of treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 9-614) (Ord. 99-16, passed 7-9-1999)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Regulations
   
70.15   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.16   Traffic lanes; designation
   
70.17   Arterial streets; designation
   
70.18   Turning generally; U-turns
   
70.19   Right-of-way
   
70.20   Crosswalks
   
70.21   Signs; signals
   
70.22   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
70.23   Stop signs
   
70.24   Engine braking prohibited
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.35   Littering
   
70.36   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.37   Signs; unauthorized display
   
70.38   Occupant protection systems; requirements
   
70.39   Accident; driver’s duties
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 6, as
now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated statutes,
the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 94-4, passed 5-6-1994)
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.16 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 70.17 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may by resolution designate any street or portion thereof
as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when
such street has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 70.18 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS.
   (A)   U-turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction at any intersection or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns
are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
   (B)   Generally. Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street
shall approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-
hand side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb
as possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such center line of the highway and in turning shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
For the purpose of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles
intersect and there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a
municipal police officer stationed at the intersection.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way
to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
      (4)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk.
      (5)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
      (6)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way
to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
   (B)   Slow moving vehicles. Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as
possible to the curb on the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free
passage to their left. Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the
right and the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
   (C)   Emergency vehicles. Upon the approach of any authorized emergency
vehicle, every vehicle within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle
shall immediately stop, except at the time they are on or crossing a street
intersection, in which event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street
intersection and then stop. Every vehicle along the route of such emergency
vehicle shall immediately move to a position as near the right-hand curb as
possible and remain there until such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles
have passed; provided, that said vehicles are operated on official business and
the drivers thereof make use of proper visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
(Ord. 94-5, passed 5-6-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as they may deem necessary.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-209)
§ 70.21 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (B)   Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
§ 70.24 ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
municipality to make or cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device operated by compressed air and used for the purposes of
assisting braking on any vehicle, commonly called engine braking. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted or erect signs indicating this
prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 99-19, passed 7-9-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the state
but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) (Ord. 95-8, passed 5-5-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of or containing
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person responsible
for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon or in view
of any street any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts to
direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle required by Neb. RS 60-6,266 to be equipped with
an occupant protection system.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM. As defined in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no driver shall
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or street unless the driver and each
front-seat occupant in the vehicle are wearing occupant protection systems and
all occupant protection systems worn are properly adjusted and fastened.
      (2)   The following persons shall not be required to wear an occupant
protection system:
         (a)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician
that the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical
reasons;
         (b)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
         (c)   A member of an emergency medical service while involved in
patient care.
   (C)   All persons being transported in a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle’s occupant protection system.
   (D)   Enforcement of divisions (B) and (C) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense.
   (E)   Regardless of the number of persons in such vehicle not wearing an
occupant protection system pursuant to division (B) above, only one violation
shall be assessed against the driver of such motor vehicle for each time the
motor vehicle is stopped and a violation of such section is found.
(Prior Code, § 5-306.01) (Ord. 03-14, passed 6-6-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road or
private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road or private drive resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave in
a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) above. In
addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the registration number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to person struck or the
driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) (Ord. 02-03, passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (C)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with §
70.24 of this code shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)
(Ord. 00-13, passed 6-9-2000)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking generally
   
71.02   Designation
   
71.03   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.04   Obstructing traffic
   
71.05   Intersections
   
71.06   Alleys
   
71.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
71.08   Curb
   
71.09   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.10   Current license
   
71.11   Time limits
   
71.12   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
71.13   Emergency vehicles
   
71.14   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
Parking for Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
71.25   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
71.26   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
71.27   Definitions
   
71.28   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.29   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.30   Permits; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
71.31   Permits; period valid; renewal of temporary permits
   
71.32   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
71.33   Removal of unauthorized vehicles; penalty
   
71.34   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within such stalls.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder
adjacent to the roadway which is available for parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 94-6, passed 5-6-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
§ 71.03 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a one-way street by the governing body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167) (Prior Code, § 5-409) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law, and no such licensed motor vehicle shall be allowed to stand for a
longer period than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24 hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-415)
§ 71.14 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.25 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Prior Code, § 5-411) (Ord. 92-1, passed 4-10-1992; Ord. 94-7, passed 5-6-1994;
Ord. 96-16, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 97-16, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 99-17, passed 7-
9-1999)
§ 71.26 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.01) (Ord. 92-1, passed 4-10-1992; Ord. 94-8, passed 5-6-
1994; Ord. 97-17, passed 8-8-1997)
§ 71.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
the federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the
act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems; any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV according to standards set by the American Heart Association; and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.02) (Ord. 94-9, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 96-17, passed 4-9-
1996; Ord. 97-18, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 02-04, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 71.28 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by
the Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person, or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person, or his or her parent, legal
guardian or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or
a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to
park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the
holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in
such spaces or access aisles. For the purpose of this section, the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social Security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.29 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.03) (Ord. 96-18, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 97-19, passed 8-8-
1997; Ord. 01-04, passed 4-6-2001; Ord. 02-05, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 71.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.28 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.04) (Ord. 96-19, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 97-20, passed 8-8-
1997; Ord. 02-06, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 71.30 PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
71.32 of this code. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be
renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Municipal
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.05) (Ord. 93-4, passed 3-5-1993; Ord. 96-20, passed 4-9-
1996; Ord. 97-21, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 02-07, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 71.31 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.06) (Ord. 94-10, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 96-21, passed 4-9-
1996; Ord. 97-22, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 02-08, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 71.32 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued, or for the motor vehicle for
which issued, and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this chapter. In
addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which may
be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking
permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to the
court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may be
renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.07) (Ord. 96-22, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 97-23, passed 8-8-
1997; Ord. 02-09, passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in §
71.34 of this code. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license
plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the
duly constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and
complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the
identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section
cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is
registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall
be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures described in this
section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.08) (Ord. 93-5, passed 3-5-1993; Ord. 94-11, passed 5-6-
1994; Ord. 96-23, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 97-25, passed 8-8-1997; Ord. 02-10,
passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.34 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on
the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is the
lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued
under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-411.09) (Ord. 94-12, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 97-24, passed 8-8-
1997)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Running at large; tethering
   
90.02   Animal control within the village
   
90.03   Wild animals
   
90.04   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
90.05   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
90.06   Enclosures
   
90.07   Interference with police
Dogs
   
90.20   License required
   
90.21   License tags
   
90.22   Wrongful licensing
   
90.23   “Owner” defined
   
90.24   Proclamation
   
90.25   Running at large
   
90.26   Capture impossible
   
90.27   Female dog in season
   
90.28   Fighting
   
90.29   Collar or harness required
   
90.30   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
90.31   Liability of owner
   
90.32   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
90.33   Dangerous dogs
   
90.34   Rabies suspected
   
90.35   Impounding
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal except a cat to permit
the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and property
or the property of another in the village or to be tethered or staked out in
such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way or
property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CONTROL WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, bees or other livestock.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any other city
or village, or any other public official authorized by the village or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb.
RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six
months within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of said
dog acquire a license for each dog annually by or before the May 1 of each
year. Said tax shall be delinquent from and after June 1; provided, that the
possessor of any dogs brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to May 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax
levied herein, and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within 30 days
thereafter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the payment of a
license fee, the amount of which shall be set at the discretion of the
governing body and the amount of fee posted with the Village Clerk. Said
license shall not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of
death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made, and upon
printed forms provided for such purposes, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. A
certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for, and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 95-13, passed 5-5-1995)
§ 90.21 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said dog
until April 30 following such licensing. In the event that a license tag is
lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was issued
in accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the governing
body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and collections
shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in
appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 90.22 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 “OWNER” DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall be
deemed the OWNER and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 90.24 PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed.
   (B)   The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage or yard on the premises wherein said owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 90.25 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall
be the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog found to be running at
large within the municipality to be taken up and the owner notified.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog
found off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner or a
responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage of other
suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.26 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 90.27 FEMALE DOG IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the municipality while in season. Any
such female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be removed or killed according
to the provisions herein.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.29 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.30 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.31 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.32 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the village police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.33 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past years, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it, or under his, her or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.34 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under
the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days.
If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the
case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions herein. If the owner of said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall
be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at
least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from
confinement.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 90.35 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in
a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and
fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all
animals, including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at
the office of the Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment.
   (B)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog is not
claimed at the end of required waiting period after public notice has been
given, the municipal police may dispose of the dog in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in
the judgment of the municipal police, a suitable home can be found for any such
dog within the municipality, said dog shall be turned over to that person, and
the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and
vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Preservation of property
   
91.02   Disorderly spectator
   
91.03   Equipment
   
91.04   Interference
   
91.05   Obstruction
   
91.06   Assistance
   
91.07   Driving over hose
   
91.08   Fires; traffic control
   
91.09   False alarm
   
91.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
91.25   Fire Prevention Code
   
91.26   Fire Code enforcement
   
91.27   Lawful entry
   
91.28   Violation notice
   
91.29   School drills
   
91.30   Fire limits
   
91.31   Removal required
   
91.32   Removal or repair required
   
91.33   Fire prohibited
   
91.34   Open burning ban; waiver
Fireworks
   
91.45   “Fireworks” defined
   
91.46   Permitted fireworks
   
91.47   Sale of fireworks
Hazardous Materials and Explosives
   
91.60   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives; storage registration
   
91.61   Explosives; blasting permits
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be
blown up, with explosives any building or structure during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 91.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant, or have or place any material within 15 feet of said hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department at the risk,
cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 FIRES; TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
§ 91.09 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.25 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 91.26 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 91.27 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary said structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 91.28 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates said ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 91.29 SCHOOL DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
municipality to cooperate with the Municipal Fire Department in conducting fire
drills in such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe;
provided, that at least one fire drill shall be held each month.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 91.30 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Defined. The following described territory in the municipality shall
be and constitute the fire limits: West one-half Block Ten, East one-half Block
Eleven, West one-half Block Fifteen and all of Block Fourteen, all in the
Original Town, Village of Litchfield, Sherman County, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
   (B)   Building permit. Prior to the moving or construction of any building
in the fire limits, application must be made to the governing body.
Construction shall include the enlarging or alteration of any building in the
fire limits. Such application shall be furnished by the Municipal Clerk and
shall require such information as the governing body deems necessary to
determine whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
§ 91.31 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)
§ 91.32 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee or occupant to remove or repair said building in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 OPEN BURNING BAN, WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.       
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee and on a form provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) (Ord. 95-9, passed 5-5-1995)
FIREWORKS
§ 91.45 “FIREWORKS” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 91.46 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighth inch in length or
one-eighth inch in diameter and which do not contain more than 50 milligrams
each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
governing body or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purpose pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
   (B)   Licensed vendors shall only sell fireworks which have been approved by
the State Fire Marshal, and such permissible fireworks may be sold at retail
only between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
91.99
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.60 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or
flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the municipality shall
register such information with the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such
storage. The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the
municipality shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the
Municipal Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new
location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with the
Municipal Clerk. This section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or
less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) (Ord. 94-14, passed 5-6-1994)
§ 91.61 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the municipality, shall apply for and secure a permit
from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 94-13, passed 5-6-1994)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-601) (Ord. 00-13, passed 6-9-2000)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Health regulations
   
92.02   Enforcement official
   
92.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
92.15   “Nuisances” defined
   
92.16   Abatement procedure
   
92.17   Jurisdiction
   
92.18   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
92.19   Dead or diseased trees
Weeds, Junk Cars, Litter and Dangerous Buildings
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Public nuisance; grasses or weeds
   
92.32   Public nuisance; litter or dangerous building
   
92.33   Abatement
   
92.34   Failure to correct
   
92.35   Cost of removal
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
§ 92.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 “NUISANCES” DEFINED.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   (1)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official
that the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and the manner in which
it may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail.
      (2)   If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful,
notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon
which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the
condition as found by the Board of Health or designated official and state that
the condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
   (D)   (1)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication
or posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing
a hearing with the Board of Trustees, the Board shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Board to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a nuisance
and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14
days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and
pursuant to the notice, the Board shall hear all objections made by the owner
or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health or
designated official.
      (2)   If after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of Trustees
finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and
direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the owner or
occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the Board may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
§ 92.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson and Village Marshal of the municipality are directed to
enforce this municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the
Chairperson, Village Marshal and court shall extend to, and the territorial
application of this chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits
of the municipality within one mile thereof and all territory within the
corporate limits.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 92.18 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the village,
the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time
before trial.
§ 92.19 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the municipal police shall have the authority to enter upon
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right
to a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail.
      (2)   Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality may
have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 95-6, passed 5-5-1995)
WEEDS, JUNK CARS, LITTER AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of its occupants or
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, readily admits
birds and animals or is an attraction for children or other persons to enter.
   LITTER. Shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals;
      (5)   Any machine, vehicle or parts of a machine or vehicle which have
lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk; and
      (6)   Any motor vehicle not housed in a storage or other building and not
being currently licensed.
   WEEDS, GRASSES or WORTHLESS VEGETATION. Any weed or grass growth of more
than 12 inches in height, or 8 inches as described in §
92.31. WEEDS shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed, puncture vine,
leafy spurge, Canada thistle, perennial peppergrass, Russian knapweed, Johnson
grass, nodding or musk thistle, quack grass, perennial sow thistle, horse
nettle, bull thistle, buckthorn, hemp plant and ragweed.
§ 92.31 PUBLIC NUISANCE; GRASSES OR WEEDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance to permit grasses or worthless
vegetation to grow in excess of 12 inches, or 8 inches in the event that the
city has previously acted within the same calendar year to remove such grass in
excess of 12 inches on the same lot or piece of ground and had to seek recovery
of the costs and expenses of such work from the owner or occupier of the
property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 PUBLIC NUISANCE; LITTER OR DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance to permit the accumulation of
litter or to maintain a dangerous building on any property within the corporate
limits of the village.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Trustees, by resolution, determines that:
      (1)   Any grass in excess of 12 inches or weeds of any height are growing
on property within the village;
      (2)   Litter is found on any property; or
      (3)   Any building or structure in the village is a dangerous building,
the Village Clerk shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
property on which grass, weeds, litter or such dangerous building is located
and further, upon the occupant thereof, by registered or by personal service.
   (B)   If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful,
notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or ground upon
which the nuisance is to be abated or removed. Such notice shall state that the
premises have thereon grass in excess of 12 inches, weeds or litter or that the
building situated thereon has been declared to be in a dangerous condition and
that the grass in excess of 12 inches, weeds, litter or dangerous building must
be removed or remedied within 15 days of receipt of notice.
§ 92.34 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   In the event that the owner or occupant of said premises fails to correct
and eliminate said nuisance pursuant to the notice to correct delivered by the
Village Clerk, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more
than $100. Each day’s violation after the expiration of the 15 days’ notice
shall be a separate offense.
§ 92.35 COST OF REMOVAL.
   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the
notice to abate, the village may have such work done and the cost and expense
of such work shall be paid by the owner of the property. If unpaid for two
months after such work is done, the village may either levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed, or recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
92.30 through
92.35 for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in any sum not exceeding that permitted
by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
      
112.   JUNK; JUNK YARDS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Railroad companies; safe crossing
   
110.02   Stockyards
§ 110.01 RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in or
traveling through the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the municipality. If any such crossing shall at
any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe or inconvenient for public
travel, the governing body may, by resolution, call upon said company to make
whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
Notice of said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of said company.
In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and correct said
condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter
shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct offense against the
provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 110.02 STOCKYARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to use or
employ any building or premises, now or hereafter erected, or existing in this
municipality, as a stockyard, animal weighing pen, whether temporarily used for
weighing, loading or unloading during transportation or not, or as a commercial
cattle, hog, sheep or animal feed lot, or to use or employ buildings, sheds or
pavilions used as interior sales barns. Nothing herein shall apply to any
person now operating within the corporate limits a commercial sale barn,
stockyard or animal weighing pen, or who presently uses or employs buildings,
sheds or pavilions as interior sale barns, but shall apply to any assignee of
such person.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Hiring minors
   
111.04   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.05   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   License required
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   License renewal; municipal powers and duties
   
111.19   Licenses; municipal powers and duties
   
111.20   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.21   Employer
   
111.22   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.23   Catering licenses
   
111.24   Display of license
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.43   Spiking beer
   
111.44   Original package
   
111.45   Sanitary conditions
   
111.46   Hours of sale
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor, regardless of sex,
under the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including
beer, to said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place open to the
general public, to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the State Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This section does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-127) (Ord. 00-02, passed 6-9-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury and under no circumstances longer than 24
hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly-owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 96-28, passed 4-9-1996; Ord. 02-13, passed 10-4-
2002)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the State
Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSE RENEWAL; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the governing body to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application for a license,
and while such application is pending, the licensee may continue all license
privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If
such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date of such area,
the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one
year.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between January 10
and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of
the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within
the municipality, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class
C licenses shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are
filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk by three or more residents of the
municipality on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the
governing body shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the
license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this
section, the governing body may request a licensee to submit an application as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Prior Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 05-07, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 111.19 LICENSES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail or
craft brewery licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new
license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or a craft brewery license, the
governing body may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative
to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail or craft brewery licenses to
sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises within its
jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the State Liquor Control
Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees and craft brewery license fees as
provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and pay the same, after the license has been
delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25 of this code, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated
relating to alcoholic liquor. Such order of cancellation or revocation may be
appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing
a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal
in the manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after such hearing,
the governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a retail or craft brewery license issued or renewed by the
Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee upon receipt
from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee, if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(5) the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 00-03, passed 6-9-2000; Ord. 05-05, passed 6-8-
2005)
§ 111.20 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer and will be punishable in the same manner as if said act or
omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (Prior Code, § 10-111)
§ 111.22 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The governing body shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees. If it is found that any such licensee is
violating any provision of this subchapter, the State Liquor Control Act, or
the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission or is failing
to observe in good faith the purposes of this subchapter or the Act, the
license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the licensee is given an
opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
(Prior Code, § 10-122) (Ord. 05-06, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 111.23 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, or a craft brewery license, may obtain an annual catering
license by filing an application and license fee with the State Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.19 of this code.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 95-12, passed 5-5-1995; Ord. 97-26, passed 8-8-
1997; Ord. 00-01, passed 6-9-2000; Ord. 05-09, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 111.24 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the governing body stating that any retail licensee subject to
the jurisdiction of the governing body has been or is violating any provision
of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to
the Act. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
governing body and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to
have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the
governing body is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a
violation and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such
belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of
the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the
time and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the governing body within 30
days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which
resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the State
Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Prior Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 05-09, passed 6-8-2005)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license; or
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service to regularly organized clubs,
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 53-177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the village, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college, except
that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Neb. RS 53-174) (Prior Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.44 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks, or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-115) (Ord. 92-2, passed 4-10-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except that
the Board of Trustees with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
city may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: JUNK; JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Regulation
   
112.03   Owner’s responsibility
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Nuisance
   
112.06   Records
   
112.07   Premises
   
112.08   Rodents
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK DEALER. Includes any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
   JUNK YARD. Includes any place in the municipality where or from which any
person shall conduct, engage in or carry on the business of junk dealer as
herein defined.
   JUNK. Includes scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids,
solids or gases, branches of trees and dismantled or wrecked automobiles,
tractors and machinery or parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 112.02 REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the municipality. Application for a license to own, operate or hold open
for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk
and shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof, that the
governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject said
application. Upon approval of the application, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the governing body.
The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation taxes, bond requirements
and other rules and regulations which the governing body may determine to be
beneficial to the municipality. Any such bond shall be set by resolution of the
governing body and will be conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this code. The bond shall be held for the benefit of any person
who may suffer damage by the improper management of said junk yard.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this code will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this code are violated, he or she shall be equally liable with the operator,
director or employee for said violation of the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
§ 112.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The municipal police, health officials and the governing body shall have the
power and authority to inspect and examine the premises on which a junk yard is
located; provided, that said inspection is at a reasonable time. Upon a finding
that the owner, operator, director or employee has allowed a health or safety
hazard to develop, the governing body shall give written notice to the owner to
remove said health hazard within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
§ 112.05 NUISANCE.
   Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated
in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after
said 30-day period of grace. The governing body shall then request the
Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director or employee of
said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 RECORDS.
   Any person who shall be engaged in the junk business shall keep a book which
shall be legibly written in ink at the time of any purchase of goods or
articles at the time the same was received and the name, residence and
description of the person doing the selling. The book, as well as the article
purchased, shall be at all reasonable times subject to the inspection of the
governing body or any member of the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)
§ 112.07 PREMISES.
   Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not have more than two
entrances and two exits, each of which shall not exceed 15 feet in width at the
perimeter of the premises. Such premises or parcel of land shall be enclosed
with either a solid non-transparent wall or fence or link-weave steel wire, or
combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven feet from the ground level,
except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not contain any poster or
advertising of any kind except one sign of the licensee not exceeding 100
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)
§ 112.08 RODENTS.
   Any person who owns, operates, directs or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice and other
harmful rodents frequenting said junk yard.
(Prior Code, § 10-308)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Fire equipment
   
130.02   Fire hose
   
130.03   Injury to trees
   
130.04   Collection of taxes, real estate, bonded indebtedness, destruction or
removal of buildings
   
130.05   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers or notices
   
130.06   Wood storage
   
130.07   Criminal mischief
§ 130.01 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority, to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or
destroy any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing
on any land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 COLLECTION OF TAXES, REAL ESTATE, BONDED INDEBTEDNESS, DESTRUCTION OR
REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Except in any municipality which has adopted a building code with
provisions for demolition of unsafe buildings or structures, it shall be
unlawful for any person to tear down or remove any building situated on any
real estate while there are any delinquent taxes unpaid thereon, or to remove
any building situated within the corporate limits of any municipality which has
an unpaid bonded indebtedness or which municipality is a part of or all of a
school district which has such bonded indebtedness, to a point outside of such
municipality, without paying to the County Treasurer, to be deposited by said
Treasurer in the bond sinking fund of said municipality, school district or
municipality and school district, as the case may be, an amount that bears the
same proportion to the total outstanding bonded indebtedness of such
municipality, if such municipality has such bonded indebtedness, as the
assessed valuation for the preceding calendar year of the building sought to be
removed bears to the total assessed valuation of all taxable property in such
municipality for the preceding calendar year or, if such school district has
such outstanding bonded indebtedness, an amount which is a similar proportion
of the assessed valuation of such building sought to be removed to the total
outstanding bonded indebtedness of such school district, or both such amounts,
as the case may be.
   (B)   Any person so offending shall be guilty of a Class 5 misdemeanor and
shall moreover be liable to the county, to be recovered in a civil action, for
the amount of all delinquent taxes on such real estate and to such municipality
for the amount of said proportion of any outstanding bonded indebtedness of
such municipality to be recovered in the name of such municipality and also to
such school district for the amount of said proportion of any outstanding
bonded indebtedness of such school district to be covered in the name of such
school district; provided, that such action may be brought in the name of such
county, municipality or school district for such delinquent taxes and also for
such proportion or proportions, if the one bringing such action has an interest
in any of such taxes or amounts, for the benefit of all those interested in the
same. Such proportion of such indebtedness, in either or all of such cases is
hereby made and shall be a lien upon such building so removed from such
municipality, and said lien and the lien of such taxes shall follow and adhere
to such building or the materials thereof wherever situated, or into whatever
form the same may be converted.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic control or traffic surveillance device placed along
a public street, road or highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess such a sign
or device which has been removed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 WOOD STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store more than five cords of cut
wood on any property within the corporate limits; provided, that this
limitation shall not apply to wood stored within a home, shed or other securely
built structure that is in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 03-15, passed 6-6-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE
Section
   
131.01   Resisting officer
   
131.02   Obstructing a peace officer
   
131.03   Interfering with firefighter
§ 131.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any municipal police officer
when such officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Obstruction of public ways
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace
   
132.04   Obstructing water flow
   
132.05   Curfew
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same unless prior
written approval by the Village Board has been given.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 19 to remain in
or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, public buildings or other
public places, or to ride in or upon, drive or otherwise operate any
automobile, bicycle or any other vehicle in, upon, over or through the streets,
or other places of the village, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
the following day unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or
other adult person having the legal care and custody of such person. When an
activity of the kind normally attended by minors terminates after or less than
one hour prior to the curfew time, in such case the curfew shall commence one
hour after the activity ceases. Minors gainfully employed or participating in
similar obligatory activities may be exempted from curfew obligations;
provided, that at the time of the exemption they are proceeding in the most
direct route and in a timely fashion to or from such obligatory activities.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are hereby specifically made applicable
to certain designated parking lots and similar semi-public, but privately
owned, places located within the village limits as specified by resolution of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-325) (Ord. 96-1, passed 1-10-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Drinking on public property; open alcoholic beverage container
   
133.21   Driving under the influence
   
133.22   Under the influence of a controlled substance
   
133.23   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.35   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.36   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in every
such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in any
county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water
of which use is made for domestic purposes shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village is prohibited, except that grass, leaves and
worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: Bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis);
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris); leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula); Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense); perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba); Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris); Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense); nodding or musk
thistle; quack grass (Agropyron repens); perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis); horse nettle (Solanum carolinense); bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum); buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn); hemp plant (Cannabis sativa);
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 92-4, passed 4-10-1992; Ord. 96-25, passed 4-9-
1996; Ord. 05-10, passed 6-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an artificial
pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense, and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
      (3)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beer, ale porter, stout and other similar
fermented beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or
description containing one-half of 1% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or
produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor; wine of
not less than one-half of 1% of alcohol by volume; or distilled spirits which
is that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any
form, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by
whatever process produced. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts
not readily consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other
receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage;
            2.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            3.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 00-10, passed 6-9-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this municipality shall be deemed to have given his or her
consent to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of this municipality
may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to
have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in this municipality while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of this state or ordinances of this municipality may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this municipality to submit to a preliminary test of his or
her breath for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving
traffic violation or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who
refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A)
above shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) above, or
if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this
section, the person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-6,205 through 60-6,208 and shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for violation of this section, there
shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any physician
or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance
with Neb. RS 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis thereof if
such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-327) (Ord. 02-14, passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance for a purpose other than the treatment of a sickness or
injury as prescribed or administered by a practitioner as defined in Neb. RS
28-401.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 02-16, passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.23 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103
shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the terms
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE and TO SELL.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
111.15 of this code, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or her
possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any
other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in
or on any other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any
subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical
control of alcoholic liquor in his or her permanent place of residence or on
the premises of a place of religious worship on which premises alcoholic liquor
is consumed as a part of a religious rite, ritual or ceremony.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-329) (Ord. 02-15, passed 10-4-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.35 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (B) below.
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   (1)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In Transit”
decals issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-320 affixed thereto, for more than six
hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (E) below.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-320 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed: To the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed: To the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) above shall also be sent to the lienholder
or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the
cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) above, the municipality may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the municipality intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30 days after publication.
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (E) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of PUBLIC PROPERTY.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or municipally owned property.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-316) (Ord. 00-09, passed 6-9-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.36 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Plumbing Code
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.15   Generally
   
150.16   Limitation
   
150.17   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.18   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
150.19   Building Inspector; appeal from decision
Moving of Buildings
   
150.30   Regulations
   
150.31   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Definition
   
150.46   Prohibitions
   
150.47   Determination; notice
   
150.48   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.49   Emergency
   
150.50   Special assessments
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEAD FREE. Solders and flux not more than 0.2% lead; and pipe and pipe
fittings not more than 8% lead.
(Neb. RS 71-5301) (Prior Code, § 9-501)
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered without first filing with the County Zoning Administrator
an application for a zoning permit. No zoning permit shall be issued unless the
proposed construction or use is in conformance with all of the provisions of
the resolution and all other applicable codes, regulations and laws of the
county and with all orders and variances lawfully issued by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Every application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a plot
plan showing:
      (1)   The location, ground area, height and bulk of all present and
proposed structures, additions, parking areas and site improvements;
      (2)   The actual dimensions and shape of the lot lines;
      (3)   The uses to be built upon;
      (4)   The building lines in proposed structures or additions; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable and pertinent information as may be required
by the Zoning Administrator or the proper enforcement of the resolution.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall examine all applications for zoning
permits, including plans, specifications and documents filed therewith and
shall either approve or disapprove such application within 30 days of receipt
of same. Upon approval and receipt of required fees, the Zoning Administrator
shall promptly issue the zoning permit and shall affix his or her signature to
the permit and the plans and mark the plans “approved.” The Zoning
Administrator shall then forward the application to the Municipal Clerk for the
governing body to examine and approve. Upon disapproval of the application, the
Zoning Administrator shall refuse to issue the permit and shall state in
writing on the plans the reasons for disapproval, affix his or her signature
and mark the plans “disapproved.”
   (D)   An appeal from approval or disapproval of any application shall be
made to the Board of Adjustment in writing within ten days after the
determination of the Zoning Administrator has been filed.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 00-14, passed 6-9-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.16 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.17 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a zoning permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair,
of any building within the village’s jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500
or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County Assessor by
the County Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 00-15, passed 6-9-2000; Ord. 04-08, passed 6-10-
2004)
§ 150.18 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.19 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   (A)   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any
village building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the
Building Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
Building Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular
building make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements
prescribed by the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or
her agent or the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the
decision or order of the Building Inspector has been made.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall hear all appeals and shall have the power
and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made.
   (C)   A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by the building or housing regulation to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees
or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is
to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall issue the permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon moving the building
without doing damage to any private or village property is filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed in behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.31 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for the purpose
of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover the excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.46 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.47 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
   “To                                                       (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and described as
                                 .
   “You are hereby notified that                                                           (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                                       . The
causes for this decision are                                        (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the village will
proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the
Village Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.48 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.49 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.50 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   Maintenance and control
   
151.003   Permitted use of public street space
   
151.004   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
151.005   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.006   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.007   Trees in sidewalk space
   
151.008   Overhanging branches
   
151.009   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
151.010   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
151.025   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
151.026   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
151.027   Acquisition of property
   
151.028   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
151.029   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
Sidewalks
   
151.040   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.041   Use of space beneath
   
151.042   Maintenance
   
151.043   Repair
   
151.044   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
151.045   Construction and repair at village direction
   
151.046   Construction bids
   
151.047   Construction by petition
   
151.048   New additions
Streets and Alleys
   
151.060   Crossings
   
151.061   Names and numbers
   
151.062   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
151.063   Excavation
   
151.064   Driving stakes
   
151.065   Mixing concrete
   
151.066   Harmful liquids
   
151.067   Construction notice
   
151.068   Construction assessment
   
151.069   Petition for improvements
   
151.070   Improvement districts; objections
   
151.071   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
151.072   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
151.073   Deferral from special assessments
   
151.074   Vacating public ways
 
   
151.999   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 151.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.003 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval
by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Board
shall designate another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances
may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
§ 151.005 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.006 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber by fences,
gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
92.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the village may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
92.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.008 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
92.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the
duty of the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the Overseer of
Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or the
committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and closing
of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the cutting and closing of the
paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Board
for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per
square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the
village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the applicant
to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Overseer of
Streets or of the committee of the Board on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.010 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over
or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or
damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the village police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except
that school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the year.
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 151.025 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms thereof, except that such
property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
        (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number, or voting precinct and village or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number, or voting precinct and village or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds
sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with
the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the remonstrance, the sufficiency of the remonstrance and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by
passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the
sale.
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Prior Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 94-15, passed 5-6-1994; Ord. 96-24, passed 4-9-
1996; Ord. 98-20, passed 10-8-1998; Ord. 04-07, passed 6-10-2004)
§ 151.026 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it shall
be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms thereof.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If the
fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the sale
shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-105.01) (Ord. 04-07, passed 6-10-2004)
§ 151.027 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Construction; elections, when required.
      (1)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
      (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of
a building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality
equal in number to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at
the last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the
governing body. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the
necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be
submitted to the voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or
a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
         (b)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (A)(3)(a) above if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
   (B)   Acquisition of real property. When acquiring an interest in real
property by purchase or eminent domain, the municipality shall do so only after
the governing body has authorized the acquisition by action taken in a public
meeting after notice and public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-112)
   (C)   Appraisal. The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase or
acquire for consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000
or more unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified
real estate appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-113)
(Ord. 95-10, passed 5-5-1995; Ord. 95-11, passed 5-5-1995; Ord. 96-26, passed
4-9-1996)
§ 151.028 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipality shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications and estimates have been prepared
and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional engineer
or a person under the direct supervision of an architect, professional engineer
or those under the direct supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $86,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance by the municipality of professional services for itself
if the municipality appoints a Municipal Engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-
3401, who is in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 through 81-3453.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 01-03 passed 4-6-2001; Ord. 05-04, passed 6-8-2005)
§ 151.029 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality’s governing body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line or any other such
improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, the governing
body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the governing body
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (Prior Code, § 8-110)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.040 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.041 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained
from the Board of Trustees. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall
submit plans and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the
Village Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the
Engineer, no permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall
continue only upon the condition that the party receiving them builds,
maintains and keeps in repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to
be used and pays all damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of
such use or by reason of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous
condition.
   (B)   As a condition precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit
for the use of any space underneath the village sidewalks as contemplated in
this section, the Board of Trustees may require the applicant to furnish a bond
to the village as obligee for the benefit of any person who may suffer an
injury or damage by reason of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the
Board of Trustees, in its discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk,
and the governing body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 151.043 REPAIR.
   The municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require, within 48 hours from issuance
of notice, said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said
repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No
special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall
neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed, and in the event that
such owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made
and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 151.044 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.045 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
§ 151.046 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to be
done, calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor, shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, that bids so
invited shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days
after the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or
special meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award
the work to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the
governing body may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates
issued to him or her by the Municipal Clerk entitling him or her to all
assessments or special taxes, against such real estate whenever such
assessments or special taxes, shall be collected together with the interest or
penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal description of
the lot, lots or parcel of ground against which the assessments or special
taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and
transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if held by the original
contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other
holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments or special taxes
against such real estate, together with the interest and penalty thereon, at
any time upon presentation of such certificate or certificates after said
assessments or special taxes against such real estate together with interest or
penalty thereon shall have been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
§ 151.047 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee
and that all other incidental construction costs, until paid, shall be a
perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such
sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the
municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of such construction
against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and
promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement
shall be levied, allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
§ 151.048 NEW ADDITIONS.
   All new residential, business and industrial additions built after the
adoption of this section shall be required to construct sidewalks in
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter and the zoning regulations
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 151.060 CROSSINGS.
   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to
the Overseer of Streets, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees. Action by the Board of Trustees on the application, whether
the application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 151.061 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets,
upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the
building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.062 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The municipality shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
municipality and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley
or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the municipality, or by the
owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be
provided by ordinance. Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall
revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof
and become a part of such property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane is vacated only on one side of the center thereof, the title to such
land shall vest in the owner of the abutting property and become a part of such
property. When the municipality vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the municipality shall, within 30 days after the effective date
of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the
Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be
indexed against all affected lots.
   (B)   The municipality shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 02-11, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 151.063 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The chief street official shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 151.068 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law.
   (B)   All special assessments shall be made by the governing body at a
regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits
derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and the
amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice
of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held
shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or of general
circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same shall be
held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon
the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such assessments
shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with the cost of
notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to the taxes
for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in
like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the County Clerk
by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy for collection by the
Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified.
   (C)   After it shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest
at the legal interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
§ 151.069 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts and shall cause such work to be done or
such improvement to be made and shall contract therefor and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (Prior Code, § 8-313)
§ 151.070 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any
improvements allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted, the governing body shall by
ordinance create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after
the passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall
publish notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal
newspaper of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks if it is a weekly newspaper.
   (B)   If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
contract for the work or improvement and shall levy assessments on the lots and
parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 96-27, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 151.071 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power to improve any
street or part thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area
adjoining the municipality. When creating an improvement district including
land adjacent to the municipality, the Board of Trustees shall have the power
to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements
upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (Prior Code, § 8-315)
§ 151.072 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power by a three-
fourths’ vote of the governing body to create by ordinance a paving, graveling
or other improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or
state highway in the municipality, or upon a street or route designated by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees as a main thoroughfare that connects on both
ends to either a federal or state highway or a county road. The governing body
shall contract therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-512) (Prior Code, § 8-316)
§ 151.073 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For the purpose of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by
this section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the
governing body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in §
151.029 of this code. Any owner of record title who makes application for the
deferral provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of
such application in writing prior to approval by the governing body. The
governing body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
         (a)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
         (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon
any of the following events:
         (a)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body
to remove such deferral;
         (b)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new
application within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
division (B)(2)(c) below;
         (c)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
         (d)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
         (e)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (C)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (D)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(2)(c)
above, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)
§ 151.074 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time and place
of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of such
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)    A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)    A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-319) (Ord. 02-12, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 00-13, passed 6-9-2000)
CHAPTER 152: MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
Section
Subdivisions and Additions
   
152.01   Designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
152.02   Subdivisions and additions permitted
   
152.03   Additions; incorporation into municipality
Zoning
   
152.15   Zoning regulations adopted
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 152.01 DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the
village and outside of any other organized city or village is hereby designated
as the village’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purpose of exercising
the powers and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003 with respect to
subdivisions and platting and Neb. RS 19-2402 with respect to extension of
water or sanitary sewer service.
   (B)   The boundaries of the territory so designated shall be as shown on the
official zoning map, a copy of which is on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 02-17, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 152.02 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
village, or of any land within the area designated as the village’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002, may lay out such
land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys and other grounds under the
name of                    Addition to the Village of Litchfield and may
subdivide, plat or lay out any such land upon conformance to and compliance
with the conditions in this code and state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 02-18, passed 10-4-2002)
§ 152.03 ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO MUNICIPALITY.
   All additions to the village laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the village shall remain a part of the village. All
additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be
included within the corporate limits and become a part of the village for all
purposes whatsoever at such time as the addition is approved as provided in
Neb. RS 19-916. If the Board of Trustees includes the addition within the
corporate limits, the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all the
rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-203) (Ord. 02-19, passed 10-4-2002)
ZONING
§ 152.15 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
community and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the village, as
compiled within the county’s comprehensive plan, including any amendments
thereto as may be made therein from time to time, have been adopted and shall
be on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member
of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 00-16, passed 6-9-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord.  Date Passed  Description
                     Granting a franchise for the delivery of natural gas to
98-1  2-4-1998       Kinder-Morgan, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 10-602)
                     Granting a franchise for the delivery of natural gas to
98-2  2-4-1998       Kinder-Morgan, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 10-602)
                     Granting a franchise for the delivery of natural gas to
98-3  2-4-1998       Kinder-Morgan, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 10-602)
98-4  7-8-1998       Granting a cable television franchise to Cable USA, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 10-601)
                     Granting a franchise for the delivery of natural gas to
03-18 8-14-2003      Kinder-Morgan, Inc.
                     (Prior Code, § 10-602) - Parallel References
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites       Code Section
5-108               33.10;
                    33.14
11-101              31.02
11-104              31.01
11-105              31.01
11-109              31.01
11-110              31.01
11-111              31.01
11-112              31.01
11-113              31.01
11-114              31.01
11-115              31.01
11-116              31.01
11-117              31.01
11-118              31.01
13-506              34.34
13-518—13-522     34.34
13-903              34.05
13-2023(1)          51.99
13-2039             51.30
17-107.02(2)        33.03
17-202              33.12
17-207              51.03
17-209              31.65
17-209.02           31.16;
                    31.65
17-213              31.23;
                    31.25
17-509              151.071
17-509—17-521     151.045
17-510              151.069
17-512              151.072
17-522              151.045
17-524              151.045
17-526              90.24;
                    90.27
17-536              52.13
                    52.06;
17-537              52.11;
                    52.17;
                    52.19
17-538              50.04;
                    52.09
17-540              34.10
17-542              52.06
17-558              151.074
17-559              151.074
17-567              151.002
17-568              31.23
17-568.01           31.23
17-602              33.09
17-604              31.01;
                    31.65
17-608              34.10
17-609              34.10
17-610              31.22
17-611              31.65
17-612              31.65
                    34.03;
17-613              35.04;
                    35.07
17-614              35.04
17-702              34.45
17-708              34.02
17-710              34.06
17-711              34.04
17-714              34.05
17-715              34.05
17-718              32.15
17-925.01           50.04
17-925.02           53.012
17-953              32.42
17-954              151.027
17-1002             152.01;
                    152.02
17-1003             152.01
18-412.01           34.03
18-503              50.04
18-509              53.007
18-1001—18-1006   151.025
18-1214             34.49
18-1720             92.17
18-1722             150.50
18-1722.01          150.47
18-1738             71.34
18-1738.01          71.34
18-1738.02          71.28;
                    71.29
18-1739             71.25;
                    71.26
18-1748             53.006
18-1751             151.029
18-1755             151.027
18-2804             34.01
19-916              152.03
19-1301             34.07
19-1302             34.07
19-1303             34.07
19-1304             34.07
19-1309             34.48
19-1310             34.48
19-1311             34.48
19-1312             34.48
19-2106             51.02
19-2402             152.01
19-2428—19-2431   151.029
19-2701             52.04
20-203              90.33
25-1801             50.03
25-21,275           50.03
Ch. 28, Art. 3      111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 4      111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 7      111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 8      111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 10     111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 11     111.17
Ch. 28, Art. 12     111.17
28-109              90.33
28-401              133.22
28-431              133.35
28-520              90.33
28-521              90.33
28-906              131.02
28-908              131.03
28-1008             90.05;
                    90.33
28-1009             90.05
28-1012             90.05
28-1213             91.60;
                    91.61
28-1233(3)          91.60;
                    91.61
28-1241             91.45
28-1303             133.06
28-1304             133.03
28-1321             133.01
28-1322             132.03
29-422—29-429     90.05
Ch. 32              33.04
32-115              33.09
32-560              30.05;
                    30.06
32-607              33.08
32-608              33.08
32-615              33.08
32-621              33.08
32-625(2)           33.08
32-628              33.08
32-628—32-631     34.47
32-629              33.08
32-630              33.08
32-802              33.05;
                    34.47
32-918              33.13
32-952—32-959     33.06
32-1524             33.13
32-1525             33.13
33-139.01           32.17
44-4301—44-4339   31.03
44-4303             31.03
46-1212             151.028
48-1503             34.03
49-801(16)          10.05
49-1408             31.66
49-1425             31.66
49-1499.04          31.66
49-14,102           31.66
49-14,103.01        31.66
49-14,103.02        31.66
49-14,103.03        31.66
49-14,103.05        31.66
49-14,103.06        31.66
51-201              34.47
51-215              34.07
51-216              34.07
51-501              34.47
53-101 et seq.      111.01
53-103              133.23
53-103.01—53-103.4111.01
53-124              111.19;
                    111.23
53-124(5)           111.19
53-124.12           111.23
53-124.15           111.40
53-125              111.17
53-131              111.19
53-133              111.19;
                    111.40
53-135              111.18
53-135.01           111.19
53-148              111.24
53-174              111.43
53-177              111.40
53-177.01           111.40
53-178              111.41
53-179              111.46
53-180              111.02
53-183              111.42
53-186              133.20
53-186(2)           111.04;
                    133.20
53-1,101            111.20
53-1,102            111.21
53-1,115            111.25
53-1,121            111.05
54-605              90.29
54-617              90.33
54-619              90.33
54-620              90.33
54-621              90.33
54-622.01           90.33
54-623              90.33
Ch. 60, Art. 6      70.01
60-311.14           71.25;
                    71.26
60-320              133.35
60-329—60-339     34.49
60-680              70.20;
                    71.03
60-681              70.15
60-6,129            70.22
60-6,165            71.14
60-6,166            71.07
60-6,167            71.08
60-6,201            133.21
60-6,205—60-6,208 133.21
60-6,265            70.38
60-6,266            70.38
70-624.04           31.66
70-1601—70-1615   50.05
71-423              111.05
71-1637             34.47
71-4406             90.34
71-5301             150.01
77-1343             151.073
77-1601             34.46
77-1606             34.46;
                    34.47
77-1702             34.12
77-1725.01          150.48
77-2304             34.09
77-2341             34.10
77-2365.01          34.08
77-2366             34.08;
                    34.09
77-3442             34.45;
                    34.47
77-3443             34.47
77-3444             33.06;
                    34.47
80-202              34.47
81-145—81-162     34.03
81-201              90.05
81-501.01—81-531  32.22
81-506              32.25
81-512              32.22
81-542 et seq.      32.22
81-3401             151.028
81-3449—81-3453   151.028
81-15,117 et seq.   32.22
84-304              34.01
84-1201—84-1220   31.18
84-1407 et seq.     31.40
84-1408             31.41
                    31.41;
84-1411             31.42;
                    31.45
84-1412             31.48
84-1413             31.50;
                    31.52
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
1-101      30.01
1-102      30.02
1-103      30.03
1-104      30.05
1-105      30.06
1-201      31.15
1-203      31.17
1-204      31.18
1-205      31.19
1-206      31.20
1-207      31.21
1-210      31.24
1-212      31.26
1-213      31.27
1-214      31.28
1-215      31.29
1-401      11.01
1-501      31.29
1-502      31.29
1-504      31.46
1-504.01   31.47
1-510      31.43
1-511      31.44
1-514      31.53
1-515      31.54
1-601      35.01
1-602      35.02
1-606      35.05
1-607      35.06
1-609      35.08
1-610      35.09
1-701      33.02
1-701.01   33.01
1-702      33.03
1-704      33.04
1-706      33.06
1-707      33.07
1-708      33.08
1-712      33.10
1-713      33.11
1-716      33.12
1-718      33.14
1-801      34.25
1-802      34.27
1-803      34.28
1-804      34.29
1-804.01   34.30
1-806      34.32
1-812      34.45
1-814      34.03
1-815      34.01
1-820      34.08
1-823      34.49
1-824      34.26
1-825      34.46
1-826      34.47
1-827      34.09
1-828      34.33
1-829      34.34
1-830      34.12
1-903      31.67
1-1001     31.03
1-1101     10.99
2-201      32.01
2-202      32.02
3-101      52.02
3-102      52.01
3-103      52.03
3-104      52.04
3-105      52.05
3-106      52.06
3-107      52.06
3-108      52.07
3-109      52.24
3-110      52.24
3-111      52.08
3-112      52.09
3-113      52.10
3-114      52.11
3-115      52.12
3-116      52.13
3-117      52.14
3-118      52.15
3-119      52.16
3-120      52.17
3-121      52.18
3-122      52.19
3-123      52.20
3-124      52.21
3-125      52.22
3-126      52.23
3-127      52.35
3-128      52.36
3-201      53.001
3-203      53.002
3-204      53.003
3-205      53.004
3-206      53.007
3-207      53.008
3-208      53.009
3-209      53.010
3-210      53.011
3-211      53.012
3-212      53.013
3-213      53.025
3-214      53.026
3-215      53.027
3-216      53.028
3-217      53.040
3-218      53.041
3-219      53.042
3-220      53.043
3-225      53.055
3-226      53.005
3-227      53.006
3-228      53.056
3-301      50.01
3-302      50.02
3-303      50.03
3-305      50.05
3-403      32.17
3-408      32.21
3-601      32.40
3-602      32.41
3-603      32.42
3-701      51.05
4-201      51.01
4-202      51.01
4-203      51.01
4-204      51.02
4-205      51.03
4-206      51.04
4-207      51.20
4-207.01   51.20
4-208      51.21
4-209      51.22
4-210      51.23
4-211      51.24
4-212      51.25
4-213      51.26
4-214      51.27
4-215      51.28
4-216      51.29
4-217      51.30
4-218      51.31
4-219      51.32
4-220      51.33;
           51.99
4-304      92.17
4-306      92.19
5-101      70.01
5-202      70.16
5-203      70.17
5-204      70.18
5-205      70.18
5-206      70.19
5-207      70.19
5-208      70.19
5-209      70.20
5-210      70.21
5-212      70.23
5-213      70.24;
           70.99
5-301      70.35
5-302      70.36
5-304      70.37
5-306.01   70.38
5-307      70.39
5-401      71.01
5-402      71.02
5-406      71.07
5-409      71.08
5-411      71.25
5-411.01   71.26
5-411.02   71.27
5-411.03   71.28
5-411.04   71.29
5-411.05   71.30
5-411.06   71.31
5-411.07   71.32
5-411.08   71.33
5-411.09   71.34
5-412      71.10
5-415      71.13
5-501      70.99
6-101      90.20
6-102      90.21
6-103      90.22
6-104      90.23
6-105      90.24
6-107      90.25
6-108      90.26
6-113      90.28
6-114      90.29
6-117      90.35
6-118      90.36
6-202      90.02
6-204      90.04
6-301      131.01
6-308      133.05
6-316      133.35
6-318      130.01
6-319      130.02
6-320      130.04
6-321      130.05
6-322      130.06
6-325      132.05
6-326      133.20
6-327      133.21
6-328      133.22
6-329      133.23
6-330      130.07
7-101      91.01
7-102      91.02
7-103      91.03
7-104      91.04
7-105      91.05
7-106      91.06
7-107      91.07
7-108      91.08
7-109      91.09
7-110      91.10
7-201      91.25
7-202      91.26
7-203      91.27
7-204      91.28
7-205      91.29
7-206      91.30
7-207      91.30
7-208      91.31
7-209      91.32
7-210      91.33
7-211      91.34
7-301      91.45
7-302      91.46
7-303      91.47
7-401      91.60
7-501      91.61
7-601      91.99
8-105      151.025
8-105.01   151.026
8-110      151.029
8-111      151.027
8-112      151.027
8-113      151.027
8-114      151.028
8-203      151.042
8-204      151.043
8-207      151.046
8-208      151.047
8-209      151.048
8-303      151.062
8-310      151.067
8-312      151.068
8-313      151.069
8-314      151.070
8-315      151.071
8-316      151.072
8-317      151.073
8-319      151.074
8-501      151.999
9-201      150.15
9-203      150.17
9-501      150.01
9-611      53.070
9-612      53.071
9-613      53.072
9-614      53.073
10-102     111.16
10-108     111.18
10-109     111.19
10-111     111.21
10-114     111.43
10-115     111.44
10-119     111.03
10-120     111.15
10-122     111.22
10-123     111.25
10-124     111.23
10-127     111.04
10-301     112.01
10-302     112.02
10-303     112.03
10-304     112.04
10-305     112.05
10-306     112.06
10-307     112.07
10-308     112.08
10-401     110.01
10-501     110.02
10-601     TSO Table I
10-602     TSO Table I
11-101     152.15
11-201     152.01
11-202     152.02
11-203     152.03
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
92-1     4-10-1992   71.25;
                     71.26
92-2     4-10-1992   111.44
92-4     4-10-1992   133.05
93-1     3-5-1993    31.18
93-2     3-5-1993    31.40
93-3     3-5-1993    31.46
93-4     3-5-1993    71.29
93-5     3-5-1993    71.33
93-6     3-5-1993    52.21
93-7     3-5-1993    52.22
                     51.04;
93-8     7-20-1993   51.20—
                     51.33;
                     51.99
94-1     5-6-1994    34.27
94-2     5-6-1994    34.29
94-3     5-6-1994    34.32
94-4     5-6-1994    70.01
94-5     5-6-1994    70.19
94-6     5-6-1994    71.01
94-7     5-6-1994    71.25
94-8     5-6-1994    71.26
94-9     5-6-1994    71.27
94-10    5-6-1994    71.31
94-11    5-6-1994    71.33
94-12    5-6-1994    71.34
94-13    5-6-1994    91.61
94-14    5-6-1994    91.60
94-15    5-6-1994    151.025
95-1     5-5-1995    31.46
95-2     5-5-1995    35.05
95-3     5-5-1995    34.26
95-4     5-5-1995    34.30
95-6     5-5-1995    92.19
95-7     5-5-1995    51.20
95-8     5-5-1995    70.35
95-9     5-5-1995    91.34
95-10    5-5-1995    151.027
95-11    5-5-1995    151.027
95-12    5-5-1995    111.23
95-13    5-5-1995    90.20
96-1     1-10-1996   132.05
96-2     4-9-1996    31.43
96-3     4-9-1996    52.08
96-4     4-9-1996    50.01
96-5     4-9-1996    53.072
96-6     4-9-1996    30.01
96-7     4-9-1996    30.02
96-8     4-9-1996    31.53
96-9     4-9-1996    31.54
96-10    4-9-1996    33.01
96-11    4-9-1996    33.12
96-12    4-9-1996    34.25
96-13    4-9-1996    34.29
96-14    4-9-1996    34.32
96-16    4-9-1996    71.25
96-17    4-9-1996    71.27
96-18    4-9-1996    71.28
96-19    4-9-1996    71.29
96-20    4-9-1996    71.29
96-21    4-9-1996    71.31
96-22    4-9-1996    71.32
96-23    4-9-1996    71.33
96-24    4-9-1996    151.025
96-25    4-9-1996    133.05
96-26    4-9-1996    151.027
96-27    4-9-1996    151.070
96-28    4-9-1996    111.15
97-3     8-8-1997    31.15
97-4     8-8-1997    35.01
97-5     8-8-1997    35.02
97-6     8-8-1997    35.05
97-7     8-8-1997    35.06
97-8     8-8-1997    35.08
97-9     8-8-1997    35.09
97-10    8-8-1997    33.06
97-11    8-8-1997    34.27
97-12    8-8-1997    34.29
97-13    8-8-1997    34.46
97-14    8-8-1997    32.01
97-15    8-8-1997    50.02
97-16    8-8-1997    71.25
97-17    8-8-1997    71.26
97-18    8-8-1997    71.27
97-19    8-8-1997    71.28
97-20    8-8-1997    71.29
97-21    8-8-1997    71.30
97-22    8-8-1997    71.31
97-23    8-8-1997    71.32
97-24    8-8-1997    71.34
97-25    8-8-1997    71.33
97-26    8-8-1997    111.23
98-1     2-4-1998    TSO Table I
98-2     2-4-1998    TSO Table I
98-3     2-4-1998    TSO Table I
98-4     7-8-1998    TSO Table I
98-5     10-8-1998   30.05
98-6     10-8-1998   33.07
98-9     10-8-1998   34.27
98-10    10-8-1998   34.28
98-11    10-8-1998   34.29
98-12    10-8-1998   34.45
98-13    10-8-1998   34.47
98-14    10-8-1998   34.46
98-15    10-8-1998   34.08
98-16    10-8-1998   34.09
98-17    10-8-1998   34.03
98-18    10-8-1998   53.001
98-20    10-8-1998   151.025
98-21    10-8-1998   52.23
98-22    10-8-1998   50.05
99-01    7-9-1999    31.19
99-02    7-9-1999    31.21
99-03    7-9-1999    31.24
99-04    7-9-1999    31.26
99-05    7-9-1999    11.01
99-06    7-9-1999    33.07
99-08    7-9-1999    52.02
99-09    7-9-1999    52.07
99-10    7-9-1999    52.24
99-11    7-9-1999    52.10
99-12    7-9-1999    52.15
99-13    7-9-1999    53.004
99-14    7-9-1999    53.011
99-15    7-9-1999    51.05
99-16    7-9-1999    53.073
99-17    7-9-1999    71.25
99-19    7-9-1999    70.24
00-01    6-9-2000    111.23
00-02    6-9-2000    111.04
00-03    6-9-2000    111.19
00-05    6-9-2000    33.01
00-06    6-9-2000    34.46
00-07    6-9-2000    34.47
00-08    6-9-2000    34.33;
                     34.34
00-09    6-9-2000    133.35
00-10    6-9-2000    133.20
00-11    6-9-2000    32.02
00-12    6-9-2000    30.03
                     10.99;
00-13    6-9-2000    70.99;
                     91.99;
                     151.999
00-14    6-9-2000    150.15
00-15    6-9-2000    150.17
00-16    6-9-2000    152.15
01-02    4-6-2001    34.27
01-03    4-6-2001    151.028
01-04    4-6-2001    71.28
02-02    10-4-2002   34.34
02-03    10-4-2002   70.39
02-04    10-4-2002   71.27
02-05    10-4-2002   71.28
02-06    10-4-2002   71.29
02-07    10-4-2002   71.30
02-08    10-4-2002   71.31
02-09    10-4-2002   71.32
02-10    10-4-2002   71.33
02-11    10-4-2002   151.062
02-12    10-4-2002   151.074
02-13    10-4-2002   111.15
02-14    10-4-2002   133.21
02-15    10-4-2002   133.23
02-16    10-4-2002   133.22
02-17    10-4-2002   152.01
02-18    10-4-2002   152.02
02-19    10-4-2002   152.03
02-20    10-4-2002   52.35
03-01    6-6-2003    30.06
03-02    6-6-2003    33.07
03-05    6-6-2003    34.27
03-06    6-6-2003    34.28
03-07    6-6-2003    34.34
03-08    6-6-2003    34.12
03-09    6-6-2003    34.08
03-10    6-6-2003    34.01
03-11    6-6-2003    50.05
03-12    6-6-2003    50.03
03-14    6-6-2003    70.38
03-15    6-6-2003    130.07
03-16    6-6-2003    52.36
03-18    8-14-2003   TSO Table I
04-01    6-10-2004   32.17
04-03    6-10-2004   33.06
04-05    6-10-2004   34.08
04-06    6-10-2004   51.30
04-07    6-10-2004   151.025;,
                     151.026
04-08    6-10-2004   150.17
04-11    9-8-2004    52.03
04-12    9-8-2004    52.24
04-13    9-8-2004    52.08
04-14    9-8-2004    52.20
04-15    9-8-2004    50.01
05-01    6-8-2005    31.46;
                     31.47
05-02    6-8-2005    33.01
05-04    6-8-2005    151.028
05-05    6-8-2005    111.19
05-06    6-8-2005    111.22
05-07    6-8-2005    111.18
05-09    6-8-2005    111.23;
                     111.25
05-10    6-8-2005    133.05
                    
 
 
