LODGEPOLE, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Ord. 275, passed 7-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of
Lodgepole Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Cheyenne County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Lodgepole,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words which
are in the singular shall include the plural, and words which are in the plural
shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall
include the future, if applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Village seal
§ 11.01 VILLAGE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription,
“Corporate Seal, Village of Lodgepole, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the
governing body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Seal; other powers, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Organization; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.04   Standing committees
   
30.05   Vacancy
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.20   Grant of power
   
30.21   Resolutions and motions
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.24   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.25   Publication or posting
   
30.26   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.27   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.28   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who
is a citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time
of his or her election and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to
the Board of Trustees. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his
or her office for the term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall
expire and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of their
office, take an oath to support the United States Constitution and the State
Constitution and faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of their
office. The Board of Trustees shall qualify and meet on the December Board
meeting, organize and appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-204
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act with a county in which the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city or village is located to provide for joint and
cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances within such
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such city or
village and the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal
agreement by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal Cooperation Act, see Neb. RS 13-801
§ 30.03 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the December Board
meeting in each year by the Village Board from its own membership. The Village
Board Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. In the
absence of the Village Board Chairperson, the Village Board shall elect one of
its own body to occupy the place temporarily, who shall hold the title of
Chairperson pro tempore of the Village Board. The Chairperson and Chairperson
pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other members of the
Board. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of the Board to be printed
and published for the information of the inhabitants. The Village Chairperson
shall also perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws
of the state and the ordinances of the village. The qualifications for the
Village Board Chairperson shall be the same general qualifications that apply
to the Village Board members.
(Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210
§ 30.04 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 VACANCY.
   (A)   Vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of
Trustees for the balance of the unexpired term except as provided in this
section. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the
incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board of Trustees at a
regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such
meeting.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall at once give public notice of the vacancy
by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall, within four weeks after the
regular meeting at which such notice has been presented, or upon the death of
the incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board of Trustees at which time
the Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified elector to fill the
vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (D)   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (E)   Upon a majority vote of approval by the Board of Trustees, the vacancy
shall be filled. If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be
rejected, and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular meeting, submit the
name of another qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by
majority vote, the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit the
names of qualified electors, and the Board of Trustees shall continue to vote
upon such nominations until the vacancy is filled.
   (F)   The Chairperson shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote
of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Trustees shall cast a ballot for or
against each nominee.
   (H)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village office as provided in this section, call a special
municipal election to fill such vacancy.
   (I)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority of the members of
the Board of Trustees, there shall be a special municipal election conducted by
the Secretary of State to fill such vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 103, passed 12-3-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-212
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.21 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures,
resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in
§
30.22 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of __________, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.24 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.25 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
§ 30.26 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk-Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.27 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.25 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.28 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.04   Conflicts of interest involving contracts
   
31.05   Salaries of officials
Appointed Officials
   
31.20   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.21   Merger of offices
   
31.22   Village Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.23   Village Clerk
   
31.24   Village Treasurer
   
31.25   Village Chief of Police
   
31.26   Village Engineer; special engineer
   
31.27   Municipal utilities offices merged
   
31.28   Municipal Utility Supervisor
   
31.29   Village Inspector
Meetings
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.42   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
31.43   Notice to news media
   
31.44   Emergency meetings
   
31.45   Closed sessions
   
31.46   Public participation
   
31.47   Order of business
   
31.48   Votes
   
31.49   Minutes
   
31.50   Change in office; reorganizational meeting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall carefully record and preserve the
bonds in his or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when
required, under the seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive
for the same the usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
31.04.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.21, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the salary was
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 31.05 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the municipality are
hereby fixed as follows:
   (A)   Chairperson of the Board of Trustees: $15 per meeting; and
   (B)   Trustees: $10 per meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Utility Supervisor and Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion or
suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Utility Supervisor, members of
the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of
the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time, except that Trustees may perform
and, upon Board approval, receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work
subject to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate,
and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation
of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged and combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined. For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters
and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Prior Code, § 1-202)
(Ord. 102, passed 12-3-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 49-14,103.01 through 49-
14,103.06
§ 31.22 VILLAGE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
31.21.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.23 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the State
Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform
such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village. If the
Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.24(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants
drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and, in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
Statutory reference:
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq.
§ 31.24 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.25 VILLAGE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before the
proper officer and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 31.26 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 31.27 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES OFFICES MERGED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Water, Sewer and Light
Commissioner are hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority
granted to the Village Board of Trustees by §
31.21.
   (B)   The offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
§ 31.28 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Utility Supervisor shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction and control of
all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the municipality,
and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may require. It shall
be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function
properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the
request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the governing body on
the conditions of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the
municipality and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the municipality along with
an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue such permits and assume
such other duties as the governing body may direct.
   (B)   The Municipal Utility Supervisor may be removed at any time by the
Chairperson, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-214
§ 31.29 VILLAGE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of office of Village Inspector; duties.
      (1)   The office of Village Inspector is hereby created, and the
executive official in charge shall be known as the Village Inspector.
      (2)   The Village Inspector shall be appointed by the Village Board and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Board.
      (3)   During the long-term absence or disability of the Village
Inspector, the appointing authority shall designate an acting Village
Inspector.
      (4)   To be eligible for appointment, the candidate for the position of
Village Inspector shall have had experience or training in building or
construction. He or she shall be in good health and physically capable of
making the necessary examinations and inspections. He or she shall not have any
interest, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any material,
process or device entering into or used in or in connection with building
construction, alteration, removal and demolition.
      (5)   The Village Inspector shall receive applications required by this
chapter and the building codes as adopted in
Chapter 150, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. The
Inspector shall examine premises for which permits have been issued and shall
make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with
and that construction is prosecuted safely. He or she shall enforce all
provisions of this chapter and the building codes adopted in
Chapter 150. When requested by proper authority, or when the public interest so
requires, the Inspector shall make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in this chapter and the building codes adopted in
Chapter 150 and render written reports on the same. In order to enforce
compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the
necessary safeguards during construction or to require adequate exit facilities
in buildings and structures, the Village Inspector shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
      (6)   Inspections required under the provisions of this chapter and the
building codes adopted in
Chapter 150 shall be made by the Village Inspector or his or her duly appointed
assistant. The Village Inspector or his or her duly appointed assistant may
accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services, after
investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No certificate called
for by any provision of this chapter or the building codes adopted in
Chapter 150 shall be issued on such reports unless the same are in writing and
certified to by a responsible officer of such service.
      (7)   The Village Inspector shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered and of notices or orders issued pursuant to this chapter or
the building codes adopted in
Chapter 150. The Inspector shall retain on file copies of required plans and
all documents relating to building work so long as any part of the building or
structure to which they relate may be in existence.
      (8)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reason at the stated office hours but shall not be removed from the
office without the Village Inspector’s written consent.
      (9)   The Village Inspector shall make written reports to the Village
Board once each month, or more often if required, including statements of
permits and certificates issued and orders promulgated.
      (10)   The Village Inspector shall also have such duties as are specified
elsewhere in Chapter 91 and Chapter 150 and as may be provided for from time to
time by the Village Board.
      (11)   The Village Inspector may request and shall receive, so far as may
be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the village.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Village Inspector, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter
any building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. No person shall
refuse the Village Inspector or any of his or her authorized agents such entry.
(Ord. 264, passed 8-2-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
MEETINGS
§ 31.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils or subunits, or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 31.41 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   (a)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the
time of the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be
kept continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the
office of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting.
         (b)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or
48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the Board of
Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the village. The public body
shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 31.42 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of
each month at the hour of 5:30 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Board
Chairperson or by a majority of the Village Board, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Village Board members in writing. The call and object, as well
as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. No other business shall be transacted at such meeting unless
all members of the Village Board are present and consent thereto. On filing the
call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
Village Board of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice
of a special meeting need not be given to a member of the Village Board who is
known to be out of the state or physically unable to be present.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Village Board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members; provided, that on
the request of any two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent
members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for
the meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to call the roll of
members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the
Village Board shall be called to order by the Board Chairperson. In the absence
of the Board Chairperson from any meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall have the power to appoint a chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise
and have the powers and perform the same duties as the regular Village
Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 236, passed 6-3-2019; Ord. 271, passed 4-2-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205 and 17-210
§ 31.43 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the
secretary or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of
the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.44 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes, and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
31.43 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.45 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual, and if that individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close.
   (B)   (1)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person, and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purposes of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance, or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (B)(1)(a) above.
   (D)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.46 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.45, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 31.47 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk-Treasurer and such other
village officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the
meeting place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on
file at the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.48 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference: 
   Votes on ordinances, appropriations of money and contracts, see §
30.24
§ 31.49 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.50 CHANGE IN OFFICE; REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at 7:00 p.m. on the first Tuesday in
December of each election year, and the outgoing officers and the outgoing
members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing Board
having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender their
offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall thereupon
each surrender to their successors in office all property, records, papers and
moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the Board the names of
all Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk-Treasurer’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk-Treasurer has called the roll, the Board shall elect a
Chairperson and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village
ordinance. The Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of
business.
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Library Board
   
32.03   Cemetery Board
   
32.04   Planning Commission
   
32.05   Community Improvement Board
Fire Department
   
32.20   Operation and funding
   
32.21   Fire Chief
   
32.22   Membership
   
32.23   Records
   
32.24   Fires
   
32.25   Open burning
   
32.26   Inspections
   
32.27   Preservation of property
   
32.28   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
32.40   Duties
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Chapter 94
   Municipal library, see
Chapter 90
   Village Chief of Police, see §
31.25
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Board of Health at the first
regular meeting of the Village Board in January, which shall consist of three
members who are residents of the municipality. The Board members shall include
the Village Chairperson, who shall serve as Chairperson; the Village Marshal,
who shall be the Secretary and Quarantine Officer; and one other member. The
third member shall be a physician when a physician is residing permanently in
the municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term of
office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June
of each year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer, where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The Board shall be funded by the governing body from time to
time from the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and regulations,
which shall have the full force and effect of the law, to safeguard the health
of the residents of the municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and
regulations and provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It
may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall
actively enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the municipality
relating to matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the
people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the
governing body may direct. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the
review and supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the governing body
may designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board
of Health position.
(Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 32.02 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall be appointed or elected. At the first regular
meeting of the governing body in January of each even-numbered year, the
governing body shall, by ordinance, adopt the manner in which the five members
of the Board are to be chosen. If the members are to be chosen by appointment,
the nominated members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. If
the members are to be elected, the usual election procedures of the
municipality shall be followed. The Board shall consist of five members who
shall be residents of the municipality. The members of the Library Board shall
serve a four-year term of office as specified by state statutes.
   (B)   The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the governing body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in June of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson, or any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and
all other employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge
of the Municipal Library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for
the management, operation and use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the library including the librarian. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate from time
to time.
   (D)   No member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Library
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No
member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson
and secretary of the Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202) (Prior Code, § 2-201)
§ 32.03 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Cemetery Board at the first
regular meeting of the Village Board in January, which shall consist of six
members from among the citizens at large from the county and who shall serve
without compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall be appointed
each year and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to give
a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties.
   (B)   At the first meeting in June of each year, the Board shall organize by
selecting from its membership a chairperson and secretary. The Secretary shall
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at
such times as the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall have the general care, management and supervision of
the Municipal Cemetery, with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery
lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided, no
religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein
and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and regulations for
the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and fines for violations
thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the sale of lots, gifts
or by devise for the care, management and administration of the cemetery. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body, and it shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate. No
member of the governing body shall serve as a member of the Board while serving
a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Cemetery
Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 261, passed 8-2-2022; Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 32.04 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The village shall be authorized make, adopt, amend, extend and carry
out a municipal plan as authorized by law.
   (B)   A commission to be known as the Village Planning Commission is hereby
created, which shall consist of five members who shall represent, insofar as is
feasible, different professions, interests or occupations in the village and
who shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with
the approval of a three-fourths vote of the Village Board of Trustees at the
first regular meeting of the Village Board in January.
   (C)   All members of the Village Planning Commission shall serve as such
without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office.
   (D)   The term of each member of the Village Planning Commission shall be
three years, except that two members of the first Commission shall be appointed
to serve for the term of one year, one to serve for the term of two years and
two to serve for the term of three years. All members shall hold office until
their successors are appointed. All members may, after a public hearing before
the Village Board of Trustees, be removed by the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees, by and with the consent of a three-fourths vote of the Board, for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other good and
sufficient causes. Vacancies of the Commission occurring other than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Chairperson of
the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Village Planning Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its
members and create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The
term of the Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for
re-election. The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each
month. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
record shall be a public record.
   (F)   The Village Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for the purpose by the Village Board of Trustees, and no expenditures nor
agreements for expenditures shall be valid or legal in excess of that amount.
Provided, however, that such Commission shall have the authority and the power
to accept and receive donations of cash, property, gifts, bequests and grants
and, with the approval of the Board, may use such nonappropriated assets as the
Commission shall deem beneficial and advantageous to the village.
   (G)   It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and adopt
plans for the physical development of the municipality, including any areas
outside of its boundaries but within its statute authority which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality.
   (H)   The Commission, from time to time, shall recommend to the appropriate
public officials programs for public structures and improvements and for the
financing thereof. It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to
further consult and advise with public officials and agencies, civic
organizations, public utility companies, educational, professional and other
organizations and with citizens with relation to the promulgation and carrying
out of the plan. The Commission shall have the power to delegate authority to
any of the above-named groups to conduct studies and make surveys for said
Commission if it deems expedient.
   (I)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall have the power to administer
an oath to any person concerning any matter submitted to the Commission, or
coming within the powers and duties of the Commission. The Commission may
further issue process to compel the attendance of persons before it and shall
have the power to subpoena books, records and papers, if necessary, which
process shall be served the same as process issued out of the Village Police
Court.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 59, passed 10-2-1978; Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 32.05 COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a community improvement board
for the village, which shall consist of a minimum of five members, citizens and
residents of the village, who shall be appointed by the Chairperson with the
approval of the Village Board at the first regular meeting of the Village Board
in January.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   At the time of initial formation and at the time of the Board’s first
meeting in February of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from
their members a chairperson, a secretary and a treasurer. It shall be the duty
of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. It shall be the duty of
the Treasurer to keep an accurate account of all disbursements and all receipts
and to submit a financial report to the Municipal Clerk on a quarterly basis,
which shall be available for inspection at any reasonable time.
   (D)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Community Improvement Board for the village shall
meet at times as the governing body or the Committee Chairperson may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson of the Community
Improvement Board or by any three members of the Community Improvement Board.
   (E)   The Community Improvement Board for the village seeks and encourages
public involvement. Any person attending a Community Improvement Board meeting
has the right to be heard on the matters, subject to reasonable time limits as
set by the Board.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Community Improvement Board for the
village to assist the Board of Trustees with economic development, cultural
improvement, recreational projects and beautification projects for the village.
All projects or activities that involve village-owned property shall be
approved by the governing body prior to beginning the project or activity. All
actions of the Community Improvement Board for the village shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the governing body. The Community Improvement
Board for the village shall be responsible for making quarterly reports to the
governing body and performing additional duties as the governing body may
designate from time to time.
   (G)   No member of the governing body may serve as a member of the Community
Improvement Board for the village while serving a term of office as a member of
the governing body. No member of the Community Improvement Board for the
village shall serve in more than one capacity as Chairperson, Secretary or
Treasurer of the Community Improvement Board. The Board may appoint
subcommittees, which members may be volunteers, when the need arises.
   (H)   As a part of the Community Improvement Board, this board will oversee
tree resource needs for the village; therefore, be it known that the Community
Improvement Board shall also act as the Village Tree Board. It shall be the
responsibility of the Board to study, investigate and develop a written plan
for the care, preservation, trimming, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys. Such plan
shall be presented to the Village Board of Trustees and, upon their acceptance
and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive village tree plan for
the village. The Board shall review annually and update if needed the
comprehensive village tree plan. The Board shall prepare and present an annual
work plan to the Village Board of Trustees for its acceptance and approval. The
Board, when requested by the Village Board of Trustees, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 127, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 270, passed 5-6-2024)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village Clerk-
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.21 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the village while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Chairperson and Board of Trustees and upon
confirmation shall be deemed employees of the village. Members of the Fire
Department, after confirmation to membership, may be removed by a majority vote
of the Board of Trustees and thereafter shall not be considered employees of
the village. Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting
in the performance and within the course and scope of their employment when
performing activities outside of the corporate limits of the village, but only
if directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the
Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one village or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first village or district which he or she
serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death
from any cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a
permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall
terminate as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of
the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the village called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of the
Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an
amount set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the village code or
the laws of the state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
Statutory reference:
   State Workers’ Compensation Act, see Neb. RS 48-101 et seq.
§ 32.23 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings
of the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of
all fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer during the last week in April each year.
   (B)   The record of any fire shall include the cause, origin, circumstances,
property involved and whether criminal conduct may have been involved. In the
event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief shall include the information
of whether the losses were covered by insurance and, if so, in what amount.
   (C)   All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable time.
§ 32.24 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village, and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.25 OPEN BURNING.
   The Municipal Fire Department shall have the power to make and enforce all
reasonable rules and regulations concerning the building and setting of fires
within the corporate limits; provided, that said rules and regulations have
been previously approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
§ 32.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, where a Fire Department is established, or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, where no Fire Department exists, at all
reasonable hours, may enter into all buildings and upon all premises within his
or her jurisdiction for the purposes of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS
81-501.01 through 81-531, being the State Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of
1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act,
being Neb. RS 81-15,117 et seq., and any other statutory duties imposed upon
the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.27 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining
property. Said officials may direct the hook and ladder company to remove any
building, erection or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
§ 32.28 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Village Marshal and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Board of Trustees. The Village Marshal shall, subject to the direction of the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, have control and management of all
matters relating to the Police Department, its officers and members and shall
have the custody and control all property and books belonging to the
Department. The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the
orders of the Chairperson. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect
the rights of persons and property. There shall be a proper police force at all
fires. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments,
obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places and
residences of the municipality. The Department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Village
Marshal and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the municipality and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense, A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.04   Special elections
   
33.05   Ballots
   
33.06   Filing fee
   
33.07   Caucus candidates
   
33.08   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.09   Recount of ballots
   
33.10   Inability to assume office
   
33.11   Notice to officials
   
33.12   Oath of election officials
   
33.13   Trustees; term of office
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk on or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election
may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other
special election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of the
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the
issue, including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The
election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same
manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the
County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the
County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a property tax
levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 33.05 BALLOTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to provide
printed ballots for each municipal election, including special ballots thereof,
whenever any measure, proposition or issue is submitted to a vote of the
electors, and upon each ballot shall be printed the name of every candidate
whose nomination has been properly certified by caucus, or who has been
properly nominated by petition. The separate ballot for any measure,
proposition or issue submitted to a vote of the electors shall state the
proposition submitted in clear and concise language.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots
for every general municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering
the ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-714)
§ 33.06 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
General Fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees
until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 33.07 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the candidates so nominated,
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated
shall have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 33.08 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms. Petition signers and petition circulators
shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for
nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing
the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The
petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.09 RECOUNT OF BALLOTS.
   The losing candidate for any office at the municipal election may request a
recount of the ballots cast when the official canvass of such votes cast
reveals that there is a difference of 25 votes or less between the total cast
for the winner and the loser. Such recount shall be made if the losing
candidate files a written request therefor with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
within three days following the completion of the official canvass.
(Prior Code, § 1-716)
§ 33.10 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the electorate
had reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the
candidate in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall
be declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected, or reasonable notice of the winner’s ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(Neb. RS 32-537(7) and (8)) (Prior Code, § 1-715)
§ 33.11 NOTICE TO OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall at least 15 days prior to the state primary
elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three
judges and two clerks of election in each election unit in the municipality, to
be known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of
good character, approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write and
speak the English language, reside in the election precinct in which he or she
is to serve, be entitled to vote in his or her election unit and hold office
for a term of two years, or until judges and clerks of election are appointed
for the next state primary election.
(Prior Code, § 1-709) (Ord. 58, passed 11-7-1977)
§ 33.12 OATH OF ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election
shall severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by
state law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall
be lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and
the clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry
to be made thereof and affixed to each poll book.
(Prior Code, § 1-710)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101.01
§ 33.13 TRUSTEES; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, the election of the
Village Trustees shall be held at the statewide general election.
   (B)   Those Trustees holding office on the effective date of this section
shall be extended to the first regular meeting of the Board in December
following the statewide general election.
   (C)   This section shall not affect the term of office of the elected
members of the Board of Trustees other than to extend such term as set forth in
division (B) above.
   (D)   All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet at the first
regular meeting of the Board in December after the statewide general election.
(Prior Code, § 1-717) (Ord. 125, passed 11-6-1995)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.03   Orders or warrants for money; expenditures
   
34.04   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.05   Special assessment fund
   
34.06   Sinking funds
   
34.07   Deposit of funds
   
34.08   Investment of funds
   
34.09   Bond issues
Annual Budget
   
34.20   Fiscal year
   
34.21   Budget procedures
   
34.22   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.23   Proposed budget hearing
   
34.24   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.25   Appropriation bill
   
34.26   General Fund
   
34.27   Transfer of funds
Tax Levies
   
34.40   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to
be made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the
close of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method
at the discretion of the governing body. Said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the governing body. All public utilities or other
enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited
separately, except in villages having a population of less than 800, and the
results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report, and
such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and
materials which conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The audit
report shall set forth the financial position and results of financial
operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality as well as an
opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two copies
of the annual audit report shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer,
and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, and will, at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts;
provided, that all villages may file an unaudited statement of cash receipts
and disbursements annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement
shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form prescribed by him
or her.
   (B)   The unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements shall
become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall
at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1-810) (Ord. 62, passed 11-7-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 34.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement, when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property costing over
$30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement, when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the Materiel Division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.03 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Clerk-Treasurer for money, unless the
same has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the
payment of which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to
the provisions of §
34.04, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.04 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever unless to reimburse the village for money expended
for any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.06 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided, that in the event of a donation of real
estate, the Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real
estate donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions
of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, by donation or by
tax levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of
Trustees, in the manner provided in §
34.08. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking
fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided, that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.07 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep
on deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Clerk-Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Clerk-Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by
reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.08 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk-Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess
of the amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and
improvements, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Clerk-Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or
registered warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either singly
or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit
banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds,
or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 34.09 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   From and after the effective date of this section, the fiscal year for the
village for 1995 shall commence on August 1, 1995, and extend through September
30, 1996. Thereafter, the fiscal year of the village shall commence on October
1 and extend through the following September 30, except as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 126, passed 11-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 34.21 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.22 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.23. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Village Board or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 34.23 PROPOSED BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act or
Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in Neb. RS 13-511. Warrants for the payment of
expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501
§ 34.24 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards, on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, together with the amount of the
tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purposes of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.22.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 34.25 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Board
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501
§ 34.26 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 34.27 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that, due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may, by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in this
chapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.40 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Landlord responsibility
   
50.02   Budget billing guidelines
   
50.03   Automatic payments
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal utilities offices merged, see §
31.27
   Municipal Utility Supervisor, see §
31.28
§ 50.01 LANDLORD RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All landlords shall be required to sign an owner’s consent form
agreeing to pay all unpaid utility charges for their property before a tenant’s
utility application will be accepted and the landlord reconnect fee waiver will
be allowed.
   (B)   All unpaid utility charges after final billing and/or disconnect of
electricity, which include light, water, sewer and trash, shall be the primary
responsibility of the property owners of any rental properties within the
village. Any utility deposit paid by the tenant shall be credited to the
account.
   (C)   Prior to disconnection of utilities from any known rental units within
the village, the property owner shall be given a five-day notice of the failure
of the renter to pay such bills when due.
   (D)   In the event the renter and the owner fail to pay such utility charges
within the time set forth in the village ordinances, the utilities to such
property shall be disconnected.
   (E)   Upon payment in full by the owner of the property, the reconnection
charges shall be waived. Waiver of a reconnection fee will not be granted for
partial payment of the past due utility charges. The reconnection fee shall not
be waived for a tenant.
(Prior Code, § 3-901) (Ord. 218, passed 8-1-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 BUDGET BILLING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The customer account balance must be paid in full before the customer
qualifies to enroll in the budget billing option.
   (B)   The customer must be a resident of the village for a year prior to
enrolling in the budget billing option and own the residence where he or she
has been residing the prior year.
   (C)   In determining the history used for budget billing amounts January 1
through December 31 of the year just prior to the sign-up period will be used.
The budget billing amount will be adjusted annually.
   (D)   The sign-up period will be from March 1 to April 15 of each year. If a
customer requests budget billing at a time other than the sign-up period, the
Clerk-Treasurer will receive the request and present it to the Board for
approval.
   (E)   Payments must be received by the tenth of each month. If a payment is
received after the tenth of the month, the budget billing option will be
removed from the customer’s account.
   (F)   Over-payments will be credited to the billing month of January. Under-
payments will be billed to the billing month of January.
   (G)   All utilities (electric, water, sewer and sanitation) must be
purchased from the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-801) (Ord. 177, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 50.03 AUTOMATIC PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The customer account balance must be paid up to date.
   (B)   The customer will receive a copy of the billing in the mail.
   (C)   The payment will be withdrawn on the tenth of the month. If the tenth
falls on a weekend, the withdrawal will be on the following Monday.
   (D)   The customer may request to be taken off automatic payments at any
time. A written request is preferred ten days prior to the due date.
(Prior Code, § 3-802) (Ord. 177, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this title, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Trash and waste
   
51.03   Unlawful burning
   
51.04   Use of village refuse disposal
Cross-reference:
   Appliances in yard an offense, see §
132.01
   Depositing trash on property an offense, see §
130.06
   Littering an offense, see §
132.02
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 51.02 TRASH AND WASTE.
   No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect, and all
persons shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after being
notified to do so by the Village Marshal, who shall represent the Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to burn any garbage, human,
animal or fowl waste in any form within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04 USE OF VILLAGE REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   An owner or primary occupant of a house, building or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated in the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way within the village, is hereby
required at the expense of such owner or occupant, to obtain village trash
services to dispose of refuse or to provide proof to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer of the owner’s subscription to the services of another licensed trash
services provider.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 213, passed 6-1-2015) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Installation
   
52.06   Lien
   
52.07   Single premises
   
52.08   Restricted use
   
52.09   Fire hydrants
   
52.10   Pollution
   
52.11   Water service contracts
   
52.12   Police reports
   
52.13   Destruction of property
   
52.14   Complaints
   
52.15   Service to nonresidents
   
52.16   Repairs
   
52.17   Unsafe physical connections
   
52.18   Water bills
   
52.19   Rates; fees; collections
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.30   Cross-Connection Control Officer
   
52.31   Installation
   
52.32   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.33   Violations
Drought Emergency Contingency Plan
   
52.45   Authority
   
52.46   Drought emergency stages
   
52.47   Enforcement
Water Wells and Other Facilities
   
52.60   Drilling and operation of wells
   
52.61   Utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground
   
52.62   Permit procedure
   
52.63   Drilling or installation within designated distance from water sources
prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Water Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department,
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Water Commissioner shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Water Commissioner shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Water Commissioner. The Water Commissioner may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she deems necessary
subject to the review of the governing body. Water may not be supplied to any
house or private service pipe except upon the written order of the Water
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid.
   (B)   (1)   The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound.
      (2)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may
hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner or his or her agent may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made except by order of said Commissioner or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installation procedure. The municipality shall be responsible for
installation of all water mains, supply lines, corporate cocks and curb cocks
installed up to or near the lot line and the actual tapping of the water main.
The customer shall then be responsible for installation of the service line
from the lot line to the point of dispersement. In making excavations in
streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of installing pipe, or making
repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed and deposited in a manner
that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public and provide for
adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation made in the street,
alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and during the night,
warning lights. After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks
shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or
sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water
Commissioner shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer. All installation shall
be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation by the Water
Commissioner; provided, that said rules, regulations and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Installation expense. The expense of providing water service to the
lot line shall be paid by the customer in an amount equal to the cost of
material including corporate cock, curb cock, pipe and the expense of
installation. The consumer shall then be required to pay the expense of
furnishing and installing pipe, trenching and the necessary labor to bring
water service from said lot line to the place of dispersement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 17-542
§ 52.06 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify
in writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer on
June 1 of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid
accounts due for water together with a description of the premises upon which
the same was used. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the
governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 52.07 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.08 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body may order a reduction in the use of water or shut off the
water on any premises in the event of a water shortage due to fire or other
good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall not be liable for any damages
caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or
any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due
to circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.09 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department, to open or to attempt
to open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; water supply; pollution; power to prevent, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.11 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on said premises
until the Water Commissioner is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Water
Commissioner all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of this code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the
additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.13 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Water Commissioner or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance.
   (B)   Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved by being
required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water, or for the resumption
of water service after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge
under protest, in which event the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall write on the
receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Such consumer may
then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting
claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest.
Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in the same manner
as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.15 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Water Department shall not supply to any person outside the
corporate limits water service without special permission from the governing
body; provided, that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply
pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.16 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.17 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 112, passed 11-2-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall charge and collect from
each customer the monthly fee for water service, together with any other
charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be mailed on
the first day of each month. Bills shall be due on the tenth of each month and
shall be payable by the fifteenth of each month. Bills not paid by the
fifteenth of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to
be delinquent as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall give a
written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment
immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the governing body to
cut off service at any time; provided, it shall be the duty of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer to notify the customer by mail of the proposed termination. The
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall assess an additional fee of $25 in the event
that water is shut off for the nonpayment of any water bill to compensate the
municipality for the additional hookup necessary to again provide water service
to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 123, passed 4-3-1995; Ord. 273, passed 6-4-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-542 and 70-1602
§ 52.19 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Fees and collections.
      (1)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to
be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department.
All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall bill the consumers and collect
all money received by the municipality on the account of the Water Department.
He or she shall faithfully account for and pay to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
all revenue collected by him or her, taking his or her receipt therefor in
duplicate, filing one with the Water Commissioner and keeping the other on file
in the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
   (B)   Minimum rates. All water consumers shall be liable for the following
minimum rates provided by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by
written order, direct the Water Commissioner to shut off the water at the stop
box, in which case the consumer shall not be liable thereafter for water rental
until the water is turned on again:
      (1)   For residential and commercial consumers located within the village
limits, the rate shall be a $34 per month service charge plus $1.25 per 1,000
gallons, or fraction thereof, of usage; and
      (2)   For residential and commercial consumers located outside the
village limits, the rate shall be $14 per month for up to and including 5,000
gallon usage for any month. For any usage during any month of over 5,000
gallons, the rate shall be $0.50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
(Ord. 63, passed 12-5-1977; Ord. 124-A, passed 4-3-1995; Ord. 137, passed 11-2-
1998; Ord. 267, passed 11-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-540 and 17-542
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.30 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   A Cross-Connection Control Officer shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the village to oversee the enforcement of this section. This person
shall be responsible for reviewing surveys submitted by the customers of the
Municipal Water Department and determining if a backflow prevention device is
required to comply with 179 Neb. Admin. Code § 2, “Regulations Governing Public
Water Supply Systems.”
   (B)   All customers of the Municipal Water Department shall be required to
report to the Cross-Connection Control Officer any potential cross-connections
which may be on their premises. This report shall be made at least every five
years.
   (C)   Any decision of the Cross-Connection Control Officer may be appealed
to the Board of Trustees, whose decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 111, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 154, passed 1-5-2004)
§ 52.31 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Cross-Connection Control Officer to install and maintain a properly located
backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense appropriate to the
potential hazards set forth in 179 Neb. Admin. Code § 2, “Regulations Governing
Public Water Supply Systems” and approved by the Cross-Connection Control
Officer.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Cross-Connection Control
Officer to install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by
the municipality. The application shall contain, at a minimum, the name and
address of the applicant, the type of backflow device to be installed,
including make and model number, and the location of the proposed installation.
   (C)   The Cross-Connection Control Officer shall approve or disapprove the
application based on whether such installation will protect the municipal water
distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
§ 52.32 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When a testable backflow prevention device shall be required, the customer
shall also certify to the municipality at least one time annually that the
backflow prevention device has been tested by a State Health and Human Services
Grade VI Certified Water Operator. Such certification shall be made on a form
available at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
§ 52.33 VIOLATIONS.
   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on his or her
premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device or
failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at least annually
shall be in violation of this subchapter and may have their water service
discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
52.99
DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 52.45 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The village shall address any short-term water shortage problems
through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with
accompanying triggers, goals and actions. Each stage is more stringent in water
use than the previous stage since there will be a greater deterioration in
water supply conditions.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board is hereby authorized to implement the
appropriate conservation measures as set forth in this section, when any of the
conditions have been reached which would qualify for any of the specific
stages. The Chairperson of the Board is given discretion to declare each
particular stage as deemed appropriate by the Chairperson of the Board by
reviewing the severity of the trigger conditions and other additional
information and is further authorized to implement conservation measures within
the guidelines provided for each particular stage.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 161, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 52.46 DROUGHT EMERGENCY STAGES.
   (A)   Stage One: Water Watch.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Groundwater levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
         (c)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         (b)   The village will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      (4)   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets, to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
   (B)   Stage Two: Water Warning.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Groundwater levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pound per square inch.
         (c)   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
         (d)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Water supply will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (d)   The village will curtail its water usage, including watering of
village grounds and washing of vehicles.
      (4)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under
Stage One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Chairperson of the Board.
         (a)   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on village
residents. Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days and even-
numbered houses on even days.
         (b)   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing, will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
         (d)   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used
in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water usage.
         (e)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (C)   Stage Three: Water Emergency.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Groundwater levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
         (c)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens.
         (d)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
         (e)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50%
and to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The village will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the village.
         (b)   The village will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the
emergency, the status of the water supply and further actions which need to be
taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The village water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
         (d)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (e)   The village will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, the state or federal government.
      (5)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Chairperson of the Board.
         (a)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
         (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 161, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.47 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that any water consumer fails to comply with the
regulatory action taken by the village, then the Chairperson of the Board may
direct the immediate discontinuance of water service to the location which is
not in compliance with the restrictions imposed.
   (B)   Water service may be resumed upon the Chairperson of the Board being
provided adequate evidence to show that compliance has been instituted and that
compliance will continue under the restrictions imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 161, passed 5-1-2006)
WATER WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES
§ 52.60 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to
drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits or zoning jurisdiction of the village, without first having obtained the
proper permit from the governing body of the village: potable water well; any
other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water; cesspool;
dumping grounds; feedlot; livestock pasture or corral; chemical product storage
facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill;
septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wetwell.
(Prior Code, 3-123) (Ord. 148, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 191, passed 11-7-2011)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.61 UTILIZING THE GEOTHERMAL PROPERTIES OF THE GROUND.
   The following are requirements for utilizing the geothermal properties of
the ground:
   (A)   Must be a closed loop system;
   (B)   Joints must be made by heat fusion;
   (C)   Antifreeze must be potassium acetate, propylene glycol or other food
grade substance;
   (D)   Wells must be sealed from bottom to top with cement slurries;
   (E)   Piping will consist of polybutylene or polyethylene pipe; and
   (F)   Will be located no closer than 100 feet to the village’s drinking
water source.
(Prior Code, 3-124) (Ord. 148, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 191, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 52.62 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §§
52.60 and
52.61, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is to be
located, must make application on the proper form provided by the governing
body of the village. Such application must be presented to the Village Board of
Trustees at any regular or special meeting. After reviewing the application of
any person desiring to drill or operate any of the above-described facilities,
the Village Board of Trustees must approve or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, 3-125) (Ord. 148, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 191, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 52.63 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE FROM WATER SOURCES
PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the Village Board of Trustees approve any
permit to drill or operate any of the below-described facilities within the
indicated number of feet from the village’s municipal water wells.
Absorption or disposal field for water                  500 feet
Any other well                                          1,000 feet
Cesspool                                                500 feet
Chemical product storage facility                       500 feet
Closed loop geothermal well                             100 feet
Dumping grounds                                         500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                               1,000 feet
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material 1,000 feet
Livestock pasture or corral                             500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility                      500 feet
Pit toilet                                              500 feet
Potable water well                                      1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                                       500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                               100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                                     50 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                                  100 feet
Septic tank                                             500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                           1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                  500 feet
Sewage wet well                                         500 feet
 
(Prior Code, 3-126) (Ord. 148, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 191, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99.
   (B)   Any customer who has had their service discontinued for violation of
§§
52.30 through
52.32 shall be subject to a $50 reconnect fee to have the service reinstated
after supplying proof that the potential cross-connection has been eliminated
or properly protected.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
   (C)   Any person, corporation or other legal entity found violating any
provision of §§
52.60 through
52.63 shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The continuation of a
violation of §§
52.60 through
52.63 shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of such continued
violation. In addition, the village may obtain injunctive relief, and sue for
damages and remediation, and pursue any other remedy available to it under the
laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Prior Code, 3-127)
(Ord. 111, passed 11-2-1992; Ord. 148, passed 1-6-2003; Ord. 154, passed 1-5-
2004; Ord. 191, passed 11-7-2011)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Operation and funding
   
53.03   Application for permit
   
53.04   Sewer contract
   
53.05   Service contracts
   
53.06   Mandatory hookup
   
53.07   Direct connections
   
53.08   Service to nonresidents
Sewer Use
   
53.20   Installation procedure
   
53.21   Installation expense
   
53.22   Repairs and replacement
Wastewater Management
   
53.35   Unlawful discharge
   
53.36   Special equipment
Enforcement
   
53.50   Inspections
   
53.51   Complaints
Classification, Rates and Fees
   
53.65   Classification
   
53.66   Rate setting
   
53.67   Service deposit
   
53.68   Fees, charges and collection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes resulting from the preparation of, cooking of and
dispensing of food and produce.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the
Sewer Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as
the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Sewer Commissioner shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Prior Code, § 3-201)
§ 53.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application in writing to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall then forward the application to the Sewer Commissioner. The Commissioner
may require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the governing body. Sewer service may
not be supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Sewer
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 53.04 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
rules, regulations and sewer rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Sewer Commissioner or his or
her agent may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 53.05 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner, who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from said premises. If the customer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the official
in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.06 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the governing body, the property owner,
occupant or lessee of any premises within the municipal sewer district, as
indicated on the official map of the village, on file in the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer’s office, shall without delay cause said building to be connected
with the sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every
building hereafter erected in the municipal sewer district shall be connected
with the sewer system at the time of its construction.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after notice has been
given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a
newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, to make such
connection, the governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be
done, to assess the cost thereof against the property and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.07 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every dwelling must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more residences be allowed to make
such connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.08 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Sewer Department shall not supply sewer service to any person outside
the corporate limits without special permission from the governing body;
provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be
paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
SEWER USE
§ 53.20 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All taps into the municipal sewer mains shall be done by the
municipality under the supervision of the Sewer Commissioner. The municipality
may, in its discretion, install the sewer service line from the main to or near
the customer’s property line.
      (2)   If the customer installs the sewer service line, he or she shall be
required to follow all rules, regulations and specifications of the Sewer
Commissioner, including type and size of pipe and the requirement of
installation of outside clean-out risers at a location satisfactory to the
Sewer Commissioner; provided, that said rules, regulations and specifications
have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
   (B)   (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall
leave an excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time
without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house
sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be restored to good
condition.
      (2)   If the excavation in the public ways and property is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Sewer Commissioner shall have
the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations
shall require inspection by the Sewer Commissioner. It is the customer’s
responsibility to notify the Sewer Commissioner at the time the work is ready
for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.21 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The costs of installation of the sewer service line from the sewer
main to or near the lot line shall be paid by the customer.
   (B)   In the event that the municipality installs the sewer service line,
the customer shall be required to pay to the municipality all costs of
materials and labor incurred by the municipality, including the costs of
tapping the main. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of
procuring the materials required as well as the services of a plumber and shall
pay all other costs of installation from the lot line to the premises served.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 53.22 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Sewer Commissioner; provided, that the same have been previously approved by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 53.35 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, surface
drainage or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals or fish or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department; or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-217) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.36 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges: an
unusually large amount of waste daily; an unusually large amount of grease or
oil; or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the Sewer
Commissioner may require said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe, subject
to the review of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall
be purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient
operation at the customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit a special agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental
fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.50 INSPECTIONS.
   The Sewer Commissioner or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.51 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Sewer Commissioner or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance.
   (B)   (1)   Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved by being
required to pay the charge demanded for the use of the sewer, or for the
resumption of sewer service after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay
such charge under protest, in which event the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
write on the receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.”
      (2)   Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
CLASSIFICATION, RATES AND FEES
§ 53.65 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 53.66 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged the following
flat rate for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and
shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
 
Commercial  $1.50 per tap, per month
Residential $1 per tap, per month
 
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.67 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The governing body, in its discretion, may require a service deposit from
any or all customers of the Municipal Sewer Department in a sum set by
resolution and filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection at any reasonable time. From said fund shall be deducted all
delinquent sewer charges. The deposit shall be collected by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer who shall immediately turn the same over to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer who shall keep the deposit in a separate fund for the customers
of the Sewer Department.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.68 FEES, CHARGES AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of
not more than 200 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than
240 mg/l.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
      RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
      SEWER USE CHARGE. The charge which is levied in a proportional and
adequate manner for the cost of operation, maintenance and replacement of the
wastewater treatment works.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
      WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished
and/or installed by the village, or furnished and/or installed by a user and
approved by the village.
   (B)   The total sewer charge shall consist of a customer charge as follows.
      (1)   Customer charges.
         (a)   The customer charge for residential and commercial is as
follows.
 
Time Period                      Service Charge
April 1, 2024, to April 30, 2025 $33.50 per month
May 1, 2025, to April 30, 2026   $36.50 per month
May 1, 2026, and beyond          $40 per month
 
         (b)   For multiple dwelling units and for commercial users served
jointly by a single meter, the charge shall be the current rate times the
number of units served by such meter. For trailer courts or camps, the charge
shall be the current rate times the number of units deemed to be the capacity
of the court. For hotels, motels and overnight recreational vehicle parks, the
charge shall be the current rate plus $20 per rental unit in excess of the
first unit.
      (2)   Sewer use charges.
         (a)   1.   The sewer use charges for residential and commercial are as
follows.
 
Time Period                      Rate
April 1, 2024, to April 30, 2025 2.20 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
                                 usage
May 1, 2025, to April 30, 2026   2.35 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
                                 usage
May 1, 2026, and beyond          2.50 per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof
                                 usage
 
            2.   For residential and commercial customers, the monthly charge
for 12 months following May 1 of each year shall be based on the average water
consumed during the preceding months of January, February and March for that
property.
            3.   Until consumptive history is properly established and for
previously unoccupied residential and commercial properties, the monthly charge
shall be based on a typical consumption of 3,000 gallons.
            4.   For commercial users and industries discharging only non-
processed, domestic strength wastewater, the rates shall be those set forth
above.
         (b)   The minimum charge per month is the customer charge and is in
addition to the sewer use charge.
   (C)   The sewer service charges prescribed by this section shall be
collected at the same time, in the same manner and by the same officers as the
water charges are collected by the village and may be included on the same
billing or statement that is used for the billing for water service.
   (D)   (1)   Each sewer service charge prescribed by this section shall be a
lien upon the premises or real estate on which or for which the sewer service
was used or supplied from and after the time such amounts are delinquent for a
period of five days.
      (2)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall, on June 1 of each year, or at
such other times during the municipal year that he or she deems it necessary to
protect the interests of the village, report to the Board of Trustees a list of
all unpaid accounts due for sewer service, together with a description of the
premises or real estate on which or for which the sewer service was used or
supplied. Such report shall be examined and, if approved by the Board of
Trustees, shall be certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk
giving the amounts due and the description of such premises or real estate.
Such amounts shall be certified, assessed, collected and returned in the same
manner as other municipal taxes. Such sewer service charges are also the
personal liability of the owner of such premises or real estate and may also be
recovered by the village in an action at law by the village against such owner.
      (3)   When any sewer service charge becomes delinquent for nonpayment,
water service and sewer service of such user may be discontinued until payment
is made and a reconnection charge of $25 is paid.
   (E)   There are hereby established the required accounts for the purpose of
managing the revenues derived and to be derived from the village’s sanitary
sewerage system.
   (F)   Sewer use rates shall be reviewed at least biannually and shall be
revised as necessary to keep revenues reasonably in balance with anticipated
expenditures. This review shall include an analysis of the balance credited to
the Repair and Replacement Account, such that sufficient funds are accrued to
provide for the expected replacement costs of the wastewater works. Adequate
funds shall continue the fair and equitable distribution of all costs to all of
the users of the system.
   (G)   Excess funds shall be carried forward from year to year in the
respective accounts. Funds transferred from other sources for temporary
shortages in the Operation and Maintenance or Repair and Replacement Accounts
shall be returned to those respective accounts upon adjustment of user charge
rates. The rates shall be adjusted such that the funds transferred will be
returned to their respective accounts in the fiscal year following the year in
which the funds were transferred.
   (H)   Users shall be provided with written notice annually, in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate being charged for the operation and
maintenance, including replacement, of the wastewater treatment works. Such
notice shall be provided to users after the review of rates provided for in
division (F) above and shall include the findings and determination of such
review.
   (I)   Any user discharging toxic pollutants to the system shall pay for such
increased costs of managing the effluent or sludge by the treatment works.
Charges shall be as deemed necessary by the village to recover the increased
costs.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 133, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 149, passed 2-3-2003;
Ord. 268, passed 11-7-2023; Ord. 272, passed 4-2-2024) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Contract and terms
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Electrical service contracts
   
54.05   Installation expense
   
54.06   Rate setting
   
54.07   Service deposit fund
   
54.08   Delinquent payments
   
54.09   Restricted use
   
54.10   Building moving
   
54.11   Meter in disrepair
   
54.12   Trees interfering with electric lines
   
54.13   Trimming trees
   
54.14   Complaints
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Light Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said
tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Light Commissioner shall have the direct
management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the
electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
The governing body shall, by ordinance, set the rates to be charged for
services rendered and shall file the same in the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 54.02 CONTRACT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish
electric current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on
any supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to
such other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and rates for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter,
shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer
now served by the Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making
of application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of
electric energy by present customers and the furnishing of electric service to
said applicant or customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or
customer and the municipality, to which both parties are bound.
   (B)   If a customer should violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the Electrical Department may
hereafter adopt, the Light Commissioner or his or her agent shall cut off or
disconnect the electric service from the building or place of such violation,
and no further connection of electric service for such building or place shall
again be made save or except by order of the Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-702) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the Light Commissioner. Any applicant shall be required
to make a service deposit of $200 before service shall be supplied. Electricity
may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Light
Commissioner. The system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate
limits electrical service without special permission from the governing body;
provided, that the entire cost of wire, installation and other expenses shall
be paid by the consumer.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
supply electrical service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 220, passed 7-11-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person
wishing to change from one location to another shall make a new application and
sign a new contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the
premises where service is furnished in his or her name, or if said premises is
destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Light
Commissioner who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from said
premises.
   (B)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all electricity used on said premises until the Light Commissioner
is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment, up to and including the
electrical meter, shall be paid by the municipality. The customer shall pay to
the municipality a $15 hook-up fee for this service and shall be responsible
for the expense of installation and wiring from the meter to the points of
distribution; provided, that on all electrical installations hereafter made,
there shall be required a meter main disconnect which shall be installed by the
municipality with the customer paying one-half of the expense of the materials
necessary for said disconnect.
(Prior Code, § 3-705)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.06 RATE SETTING.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by electrical consumers. All rates shall be on file for public inspection at
the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the municipality on
the account of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-706) (Ord. 65, passed 12-5-1977; Ord. 150, passed 3-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.07 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   The service deposit of $25 required for electrical service shall be promptly
paid upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From said deposit
shall be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. The service deposit shall
be collected by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and immediately turned over to
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer who shall keep said fees in a trust fund for the
customers of the electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-708)
§ 54.08 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer on the tenth day of each month. If said fees are not paid on or
before the tenth day of the month of the month that the same are due, said
electrical fees shall have a penalty assessed, which shall also be due and
payable, in the amount of 10% of said monthly electrical fee. In addition, if
said electrical fees are not paid by the fifteenth day of the month after the
same become due, the electricity will be turned off after seven days’ notice by
mail to the subscriber and not turned on again until all back fees and charges
are paid, including said 10% penalty charge; it shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to notify the customer by mail of the proposed
termination of service. The owner of the premises will in all cases be held
primarily responsible and will be required to pay for electricity at such
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-709) (Ord. 113, passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 273, passed 6-4-2024)
Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 70-1602
§ 54.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of
electric current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Light
Commissioner has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such
service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
   (B)   The municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to
provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers but shall not be liable
for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality has no control, and the municipality expressly reserves the right
to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-710)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.10 BUILDING MOVING.
   (A)   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it
becomes necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or
wires of the municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except
upon written permission received from the Light Commissioner, who shall then
order paid in advance the actual cost of moving said wires and such cost shall
be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house.
   (B)   All expense of removing, changing and replacing said wires or
apparatus of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior
to moving and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be
returned to the applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving said
building or house it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred,
such additional deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-711)
§ 54.11 METER IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any customer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall charge such customer the
same amount billed one year previous to such disrepair. In the event that there
is no such basis for comparison, the Clerk-Treasurer shall charge the customer
such amount as he or she deems is fair both to the customer and the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-712)
§ 54.12 TREES INTERFERING WITH ELECTRIC LINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant trees or bushes under electric
lines located on public streets and alleys if said trees shall interfere,
disrupt or damage said lines.
(Prior Code, § 3-713) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.13 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
said work, give reasonable written notice to the Light Commissioner and shall
follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for
doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such
trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper
notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the
governing body shall have the power to order cut and removed any overhanging
branches, or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-714) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.14 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Light Commissioner or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who
considers himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge
demanded for the use of electric service, or for the resumption of electric
service after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under
protest, in which event the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall write on the
receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Such consumer may
then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting
claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest.
Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in the same manner
as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-715)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
70.04   Crosswalks
   
70.05   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.06   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.08   Designation of traffic lanes and arterial streets
   
70.09   Child passenger restraint system
Speed Limits
   
70.20   Basic rule
   
70.21   Maximum limits
   
70.22   Near schools
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.35   Littering
   
70.36   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
70.37   Unauthorized display
   
70.38   Unnecessary noise
   
70.39   Negligent driving
   
70.40   Driving abreast
   
70.41   Emergency regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a Business District when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the State Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority of
the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the State Rules of the
Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and, in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 70.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
§ 70.05 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of State Rules of the Road and this title,
including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any other state
or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.06 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the State Rules of
the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes has
violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the State Rules of
the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in the
Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC LANES AND ARTERIAL STREETS.
   (A)   Traffic lane; designation. The governing body may, by resolution, mark
lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
   (B)   Arterial streets; designation. The governing body may, by resolution,
designate any street or portion thereof as an arterial street and shall provide
for appropriate signs or markings when such street has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 70.09 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to have
seat safety belts, shall ensure that all children under the age of four or
weighing less than 40 pounds being transported in such vehicle use a child
restraint system, of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
213 as developed by the Highway Safety Administration as of the effective date
of this act and which is correctly installed in such vehicle and all children
weighing 40 pounds or more or at least four years of age and younger than five
years of age being transported in such vehicle use a seat safety belt;
provided, however, that this section does not apply to taxicabs, mopeds,
motorcycles and any other vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year
model or earlier which is not equipped with a seat safety belt.
   (B)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines through accepted medical procedures, that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition or other medical reason, the provisions of
division (A) above shall be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such
a child shall carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written
statement of the physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for
such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (D)   The Department of Motor Vehicles shall develop and implement an
ongoing public information and education program regarding the use of child
passenger restraint systems and seat safety belts.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 104, passed 12-3-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
SPEED LIMITS
§ 70.20 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
70.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any Residential District;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any Business District;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to this code or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to divisions (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.36 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or the village,
to remove any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device
placed along a highway for traffic control, warning or informational purposes
by official action of the department, county or village. It shall be unlawful
for any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation
of this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device and the cost of
replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,127
§ 70.38 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Unnecessary noise. It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of
said municipality to make, or cause to be made, any unnecessary noise with any
signal device, or to use the same except as a road signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
   (B)   Unnecessary tire noise. Any person who drives, uses, operates, parks
or stops any motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause unnecessary tire noise
shall be deemed guilty of causing unnecessary tire noise.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.39 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-207) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may
be driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,308
§ 70.41 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Village Marshal is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)
Statutory reference:
   State patrol; powers and duties enumerated, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this title, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.02   Alleys
   
71.03   Time limits
   
71.04   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
71.05   Unattended motor vehicle
   
71.06   Parking for disabled persons
   
71.07   Trucks containing flammable gases and liquids
   
71.08   Trucks parking overnight
§ 71.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of
disabled persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates
issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14, such other
handicapped persons, as certified by the governing body, whose vehicles display
the identification as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such
other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body, which display such
identification. All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard or its equivalent. Whenever
the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a
sign which is in conformance with the nineteenth edition of the Federal Highway
Administration’s Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Visually handicapped persons and those
permanently physically handicapped persons who have definite walking problems
to such an extent that walking is impractical, impossible, extremely painful or
generally detrimental to one’s health, including those persons who have
respiratory problems which incapacitate their walking, any individual who has
permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or more limbs and
disabled persons as defined in Neb. RS 60-311.14.
      VISUALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Persons using the white cane or guide dog.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall take an application from
physically handicapped persons or their parent, legal guardian or foster parent
for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor
vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces
provided for by this section. Persons applying for a permit shall complete such
forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by the Department of
Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer that he or she is handicapped. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
may require medical certificates and proof of a handicapped condition. Such
application shall be forwarded to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may take an application from any person
for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically
handicapped persons to park in those spaces provided for by this section, if
the motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically
handicapped person. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor
vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of
physically handicapped persons. Persons applying for permits pursuant to this
section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of physically handicapped persons and shall complete such forms
as are provided to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by the Department of Motor
Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the Clerk-Treasurer that each such motor
vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons. Such applications shall be forwarded to the Department of Motor
Vehicles.
   (E)   The permit shall be a card not less than four inches by four inches in
size, constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously displayed from a
vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently displayed the date of
expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair symbol, which symbol is a
representation of a person seated in a wheelchair surrounded by a border six
units wide by seven units high, and an identifying number on the front of the
card. The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons or for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons shall be white on blue.
The permit issued to temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for the
transportation of temporarily handicapped or disabled persons shall be a
special distinguishing color as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
The name, address, phone number, date of birth and age of the handicapped or
disabled person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The name,
address and phone number of the party to whom issued and the license plate
number of the motor vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the
reverse side of the permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons.
   (F)   No permit shall be issued to any person for any motor vehicle if any
valid handicapped parking permit has been issued to such person or for such
motor vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to this section.
   (G)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles
without cost if the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such
duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the
original permit was issued.
   (H)   All permits authorized under this section shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. A permit
fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2.50 of which shall be retained by
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and $0.50 of which shall be forwarded to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (I)   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other
person, for any other motor vehicle or for any other purpose shall be cause for
suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such
period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
   (J)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, as the case may
be, and the municipality when providing on-street parking or owning, operating
or providing an off-street parking facility, may cause the removal, from a
stall or space designated exclusively for disabled persons, other handicapped
persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons, of any vehicle not displaying proper identification or one of the
distinguishing license plates specified in this section if there is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
Anyone parking in an on-street parking space which has been designated
exclusively for handicapped persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped persons, or in any so designated parking space in any off-street
parking facility owned or operated by the municipality without properly
displaying the proper identification, shall be guilty of a traffic infraction
as defined in Neb. RS 39-602 and shall be subject to the penalties and
procedure set forth in Neb. RS 39-6,122.
(Prior Code, § 5-409) (Ord. 68, passed 11-7-1977; Ord. 100, passed 12-4-1989)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 through 18-1742
§ 71.07 TRUCKS CONTAINING FLAMMABLE GASES AND LIQUIDS.
   No truck containing flammable gases or liquids shall park or stop for any
period of time in the residential district except for the purpose of loading or
unloading cargo in the ordinary course of business.
(Prior Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.08 TRUCKS PARKING OVERNIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any truck with an overall length of more than 20
feet to park overnight within the municipality, except in those areas
designated for said parking by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-408) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Operation
   
72.02   Clinging to motor vehicles
Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.15   Permit required
   
72.16   Parades
   
72.17   Enforcement
   
72.18   Permit revocation
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or without a yellow or
red light reflector attached to, and visible 500 feet from, the rear thereof.
Said headlight shall give a clear, white light.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317 and 60-6,318
§ 72.02 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the
same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway; and
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit
any person traveling upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach
himself or herself, or his or her bicycle, or roller skates, to such vehicle so
driven and operated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate an off-road vehicle upon the public
streets of the village shall first apply for a permit upon an application form
furnished by the Village Clerk-Treasurer and receive a permit from the Village
Clerk-Treasurer to operate said off-road vehicle.
   (B)   The requirements and criteria for obtaining said permit shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Off-road designed vehicle requirements:
         (a)   Seventy-two inches or less in width;
         (b)   Dry weight of 2,500 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
         (d)   Has a seat for the operator;
         (e)   Has handle bars or other steering assembly for steering control;
         (f)   Is equipped with a bicycle safety flag that extends not less
than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle; the bicycle
safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30
square inches and shall be dayglow in color; or, alternatively, shall be
equipped with a flashing light that operates at all times when the vehicle is
in operation;
         (g)   Is equipped with a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the
vehicle;
         (h)   Shall display a lighted headlight and taillight at all times
when visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions;
         (i)   Has a brake system maintained in good operating condition; and
         (j)   Has an adequate muffler system in good working order to control
noise and pollutants.
      (2)   Applicant’s requirements:
         (a)   Applicant must be 14 years of age and possess a valid driver’s
license;
         (b)   Applicant’s license to operate a motor vehicle is not currently
suspended or revoked by the laws of the state;
         (c)   Applicant must be able to obtain and submit proof of financial
responsibility evidencing the applicant’s ability to respond in damages for
liability, on account of accidents occurring subsequent to the effective date
of such proof, arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use of said off-
road designed vehicle, in the amount of $25,000 because of bodily injury to or
death of one person in any one accident, subject to such limit for one person
in the amount of $50,000 because of bodily injury or death of two or more
persons in any one accident and in the amount of $25,000 because of injury to
or destruction of property of others in any one accident;
         (d)   Applicant acknowledges that the applicant shall abide by the
terms and conditions of this subchapter; and
         (e)   A non-refundable application fee of $25 shall accompany each
application. Further, the applicant shall pay all other expenses and costs
associated with the applicant’s application.
      (3)   Upon satisfaction of the above conditions, the Clerk-Treasurer may
issue a permit to the applicant to operate the off-road vehicle on the streets
of the village, under the following rules and regulations.
         (a)   Said permit is valid for only one year from the date of its
issuance and must be displayed prominently on the vehicle at all times.
         (b)   The applicant shall operate such off-road vehicle subject to the
following:
            1.   All rules of the road of the state as found in Neb. RS Chapter
60, not in conflict herewith; and
            2.   All ordinances of the village, as found in this code, not in
conflict herewith.
         (c)   Said off-road vehicle shall not be operated upon the highways of
the state located within the corporate limits of the city, except, at a street
intersection, to cross said highway, in a quick and safe manner, at an angle of
approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the highway; and
         (d)   Said off-road vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess
of 25 mph or village speed limits, whichever is less.
   (C)   By the applicant’s signing an application for a permit to operate an
off-road vehicle upon the public streets of the village pursuant to this
subchapter, said applicant consents to the release of all information deemed
relevant by the Village Clerk-Treasurer in determining whether or not to issue
a permit to said applicant based upon said applicant’s application.
(Ord. 254, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 72.16 PARADES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to off-road vehicles in parades, which have
been authorized by the Chairperson of the Board and Board of Trustees of the
village, and off-road vehicles, which have been specifically prohibited to be
upon the public streets of the village as herein indicated.
(Ord. 254, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 72.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chairperson of the Board of the village and the Village Clerk-Treasurer
are hereby authorized and directed to implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 254, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 72.18 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Should a permit be issued, pursuant to this subchapter, said permit is
subject to immediate revocation and impoundment for any violation of the terms
and conditions of this subchapter. All law enforcement officers having arrest
jurisdiction within the corporate limits of the village are hereby authorized
to enforce the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 254, passed 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Special parking designations
SCHEDULE I. SPECIAL PARKING DESIGNATIONS.
   Double parking is hereby prohibited on Highway 30 where the same passes
through the village. No person shall park a motor vehicle on Highway 30 where
the same passes through the village except parallel to the curb line, and, when
so parked, such vehicle shall stand adjacent to the curb or edge of street in
such a manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb and so
as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any other
parked vehicle. No person shall park any truck with an overall length of more
than 20 feet on Highway 30 between Oberfelder and McBride Streets.
(Prior Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Municipal Library
   
90.15   Operation and funding
   
90.16   Books
   
90.17   Rules and regulations
   
90.18   Damaged and lost books
   
90.19   Book removal
   
90.20   Money collected
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land
for park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the Village
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village.
      (2)   The funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for
laying out, improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving,
managing and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams
and for the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the
performance of such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
Fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Clerk-Treasurer out of the Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and
the police power of the village shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut
down, injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or
recreational facility.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded or
planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area.
   (C)   No person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or
other public grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
MUNICIPAL LIBRARY
§ 90.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the Library
Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be
known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202 and 51-211
§ 90.16 BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(Neb. RS 51-207) (Prior Code, § 3-602)
§ 90.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the municipal library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property or for failure to
return a book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil
action in the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay said assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-603) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205 and 51-214
§ 90.18 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Neb. RS 51-211) (Prior Code, § 3-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the library, without the consent of
the librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing a
book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 51-211) (Prior Code, § 3-605) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer along with a report of the sources
of the revenue.
(Neb. RS 51-209) (Prior Code, § 3-606)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Board of Health
   
91.04   State rules
Nuisances
   
91.15   Nuisances generally defined
   
91.16   Nuisances specifically defined
   
91.17   Abatement procedure
   
91.18   Jurisdiction
   
91.19   Direct action in court
   
91.20   Abatement of nuisances
Vacant Property Registration
   
91.35   Definitions
   
91.36   Applicability and administration
   
91.37   Exemptions
   
91.38   Procedure and fees
   
91.39   Inspections
   
91.40   Collection of fees and fines
   
91.41   Changes in ownership or status
   
91.42   Notice; right to appeal
   
91.43   Appeals
   
91.44   Emergency repairs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Cross-reference:
   Board of Health, see §
32.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the Chief Health Officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see §
31.25
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
§ 91.04 STATE RULES.
   (A)   The “Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,” State
Department of Health are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended.
   (B)   Three copies of said pamphlet are filed at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (Prior Code, § 4-103)
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 NUISANCES GENERALLY DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the village;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
§ 91.16 NUISANCES SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, tree limbs and branches, old automobiles, trucks and other motor
vehicles or parts thereof, automobile, truck or other motor vehicle bodies,
chassis or parts thereof or any waste materials when any of said articles or
materials create a condition in which flies or rats may breed or multiply, or
which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property
values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained an any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stock yards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (L)   All other specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things
which constitute a nuisance as generally defined in §
91.15 and not specifically defined in this section; and
   (M)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 142, passed 5-7-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
   Powers of Village Board of Trustees, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 91.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances.
Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner or each
owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service
or certified mail, with said notice to be signed by the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees of the village. If, within five days after receipt of such
notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a
hearing with the Board of Trustees, and fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the Board of Trustees may have such work done and
completed after which a statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the owner and occupant and the village may thereafter levy the costs as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien
upon the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments. If within said five-day period the owner or occupant requests in
writing a hearing before the Board of Trustees, then said hearing shall be held
within 30 of said written request, at which time the Board of Trustees shall
hear all objections made by interested parties and shall hear evidence
submitted. If, after consideration of all of the evidence, the Board of
Trustees shall find that said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee to remedy
and abate said public nuisance within five days. If within five days the owner
or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not remedy and abate said public
nuisance, the Board of Trustees may have such work done and completed after
which a statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the owner
and occupant and the village may thereafter levy the costs as a special
assessment against the land, with such special assessment to be a lien upon the
real estate to be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 67, passed 11-7-1977; Ord. 142, passed 5-7-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
   Powers of Village Board of Trustees, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 91.18 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson and Village Marshal of the municipality are directed to
enforce this chapter against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the
Chairperson, Village Marshal and court shall extend to, and the territorial
application of this chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits
of the municipality within one mile thereof and all territory within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 91.19 DIRECT ACTION IN COURT.
   In addition to any other remedies the law may provide, and in addition to
the abatement procedures set forth in §
91.17, and in addition to the penal provisions set forth in §
91.99, the village, may at the discretion of the Board of Trustees bring an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin and/or abate any such
nuisance, in the manner provided by law. Said action in any court of competent
jurisdiction may be brought prior to notification to the owner, occupant,
lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof and may be brought in the absence of any
abatement procedure set forth in §
91.17.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 142, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 91.20 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Whenever, in any action or proceeding set forth in §
91.99, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court may together with a
fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment
in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-402) (Ord. 142, passed 5-7-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
§ 91.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Having the objective of supplying commodities (goods
and services), industrial uses, industrial manufacturing and ancillary business
functions.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building with more than 50% of its floor space used
for commercial activity.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of lawful business.
   OWNER. The owner of record on the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A housing structure or other framework, together with
such land on which the dwelling and appurtenant buildings are located, that is
used or intended to support occupancy of one or more persons for non-business
purposes. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: a house, a
condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit or building or a trailer house.
   VACANT. The property has been vacant for 180 days or longer, and during such
time, has continuously exhibited evidence of vacancy as described in this
section.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.36 APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to any type of either residential or
commercial building, or both, located within the corporate limits of the
village, except any property owned by the federal government, the state or any
political subdivision thereof, or any property specifically referenced in §
91.37.
   (B)   The village shall maintain a database of vacant property within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.37 EXEMPTIONS.
   Property that is “for sale” or “for rent” or “for lease,” and where the
owner can produce sufficient good faith evidence of active marketing of sale,
rent or lease, shall be exempt from the vacant property registration and fee
requirements.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.38 PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Owner(s) of vacant property, as defined in this subchapter,
shall voluntarily register such property with the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Registration shall be completed by the completion of a vacant
property registration form in either paper or electronic form, upon which the
following information shall be required:
         (a)   Name, street address, mailing address, telephone number and, if
applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
         (b)   Street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
         (c)   Transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner;
         (d)   Date on which the property became vacant; and
         (e)   Owner plan of occupancy, which sets out the time period that the
vacant property is expected to remain vacant and a plan and timetable for the
following:
            1.   Returning the vacant property to the appropriate occupancy or
use;
            2.   Marketing the property for sale or lease;
            3.   Making any necessary repairs; or
            4.   Demolition of the property, or removal in the case of a mobile
home.
      (3)   The owner shall notify the village of any changes in information
supplied as part of the vacant property registration within 30 calendar days of
the change.
   (B)   Owners of vacant property shall be required to pay an initial
registration fee 180 days after initial registration of the vacant property
pursuant to division (A) above or 360 days after the property becomes vacant,
whichever is sooner. The initial registration fee for residential properties
shall be $250. The initial registration fee for commercial properties shall be
$1,000.
   (C)   (1)   Owners of vacant property shall be required to pay an additional
supplemental fee each year for as long as the property remains on the vacant
property registration data base. The supplemental fee shall be $500. The
maximum supplemental fee charged shall not exceed $2,500.
      (2)   Should the property be identified by the village as vacant, the
owner must register said property with the Village Clerk-Treasurer within 30
calendar days of written notice provided to the owner or the owner’s resident
agent of the existence of the vacant property. Such notice shall be served on
the owner or resident agent by personal service or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the
commercial building or residential building which is vacant.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 INSPECTIONS.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee shall inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.40 COLLECTION OF FEES AND FINES.
   (A)   Any and all civil penalties or fees assessed under this subchapter
shall be billed to the owner or other responsible party. Failure or refusal to
pay any and all such penalties permits the village to pursue any and all
available legal remedies for the enforcement and collection of such penalties,
including, but not limited to, suits or actions being maintained in any court
of competent jurisdiction, abatement of nuisances maintained in violation of
this subchapter, institution of injunction, mandamus or other appropriate
action or proceedings to enforce the penalty provisions of this subchapter and
§
91.99(B). This subchapter in no way limits the penalties, actions or abatement
procedures which may be taken by the village for a violation of any other
ordinance of the village or statute of the state.
   (B)   Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any
violation of this subchapter shall become a lien on the applicable property
upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the County
Register of Deeds. The lien created under this division (B) shall be
subordinate to all liens on the applicable property recorded prior to the time
the notice of such lien under this division (B) is recorded.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR STATUS.
   (A)   If vacant property changes ownership, the subsequent owner or owners
of the vacant property shall assume the obligation of the previous owner or
owners.
   (B)   If at any time vacant property that has been registered with the
database ceases to be classified as vacant or subsequently meets one of the
exemptions, the owner or owners shall notify the Village Clerk-Treasurer, who
shall, upon proof of such change in circumstances, remove said property from
the database.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.42 NOTICE; RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice of any determination made pursuant to this subchapter shall be
sent by certified mail to the registered owner at the address maintained in the
Register of Deed’s office. Any determination shalt not take effect until ten
days after the sending of said notice.
   (B)   If the owner or owners of any property subject to this subchapter
object to any determination made by the village or Village Clerk-Treasurer
pursuant to this subchapter, he, she or they may appeal said determination to
the Village Board.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.43 APPEALS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice from the village declaring that a property is
vacant or remains vacant, the owner of the building may appeal such decision
within 20 calendar days of receipt of the notice. Such appeal shall be in
writing to the Village Clerk-Treasurer. Such appeal shall request a hearing
before the Board of Health to present reasons why the building should not be
declared vacant. The Board of Health shall set such hearing within 20 business
days from the date of receipt of the written request.
   (B)   A written notice of the Board of Health’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail or shall be
provided at the conclusion of the meeting. If the Board of Health rejects the
appeal, the owner shall have 30 calendar days from the decision to register the
vacant building; provided, the owner may appeal such decision within ten
calendar days of the Board of Health’s decision to the Village Board, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Health shall be stayed. Any
appeal of a decision from the Village Board shall be made within 30 days of the
decision to an appropriate court for adjudication.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.44 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   If an unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the health,
safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails to
remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Village Clerk-
Treasurer to do so, the village may summarily repair such building or
structure.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.04 and
91.15 through
91.20, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.44 who shall fail, neglect or refuse to perform such duty, or who shall
violate a provision of §§
91.35 through
91.44, shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500, except that each person so
convicted shall be fined in a sum of not less than $200 for the first offense,
not less than $300 for the second offense and not less than $400 for the third
offense and each offense thereafter. The penalty herein provided shall be
cumulative with and in addition to the revocation, cancellation or forfeiture
of any license, permit or right elsewhere provided for or as provided by law.
Each day a violation of §§
91.35 through
91.44 continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(Ord. 274, passed 6-4-2024)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Maintenance and control
   
92.03   Permitted use of public street space
   
92.04   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
92.05   Prohibited obstructions
   
92.06   Trees in sidewalk space
   
92.07   Overhanging branches
   
92.08   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
92.09   Sale and conveyance of property
   
92.10   Weeds
Sidewalks
   
92.25   Requirement to keep clean
   
92.26   Construction at owner’s initiative
Streets and Alleys
   
92.40   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
92.41   Construction assessments
   
92.42   Names and numbers
   
92.43   Excavation
   
92.44   Driving stakes
   
92.45   Mixing concrete
   
92.46   Harmful liquids
 
   
92.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   UTILITY SUPERVISOR. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, UTILITY SUPERVISOR shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
§ 92.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.03 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Municipal Utility Supervisor. No
permit shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of
the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk
is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Municipal Utility Supervisor.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval
by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or
relocated. The Board shall designate another location as closely as possible
where the appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
§ 92.05 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.17.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Municipal Utility Supervisor upon payment
of the fee, if any, established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the village may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
91.17.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
91.17.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk-Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done and it
shall be the duty of the Municipal Utility Supervisor to inspect the proposed
place of entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Municipal Utility Supervisor, who
shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the Municipal
Utility Supervisor, under the supervision and inspection of the Village
Engineer or the committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs
thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the
permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Clerk-Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Board for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Municipal Utility Supervisor or of the committee of the Board on streets and
alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.
   The municipality shall have the power by ordinance to sell and convey all
public squares, streets and alleys, but not including land used for park
purposes within the municipality; provided, that a petition containing the
signatures of three-fourths of the property holders of the municipality, has
been presented to the governing body, and a notice of the petition has been
published not less than four weeks in each paper of general circulation in the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 92.10 WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Municipal Utility Supervisor or his or
her duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or
occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds; provided, any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches
shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a nonresident of the municipality or cannot be found therein
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the
Municipal Utility Supervisor or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice
on the premises and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost
shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall
be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and
shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered
by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of
land. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which
the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-107) Penalty, see §
92.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.25 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the Business District
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall give
a description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Municipal Utility Supervisor shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the Municipal Utility Supervisor shall submit the
application to the Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit
should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or
elevation than so designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and
constructed on the established grade or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Municipal
Utility Supervisor.
Penalty, see §
92.99
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.40 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 92.41 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may
be authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law.
      (2)   All special assessments shall be made by the governing body at a
regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits
derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and the
amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held.
      (2)   In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be had
upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer forthwith after the date of levy,
for collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified.
After it shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the
legal interest rate per annum.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 92.42 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street
or provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Utility Supervisor, upon the
erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and
give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Municipal Utility Supervisor authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.44 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Municipal Utility Supervisor.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.45 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
   Rehabilitation, demotion, repair of buildings, see Neb. RS 18-1722 
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Animals and fowl
   
93.03   Running at large; tethering
   
93.04   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.05   Enclosures
   
93.06   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
93.07   Pitting animals prohibited
   
93.08   Interference with police
Dogs
   
93.20   Running at large
   
93.21   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
93.22   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.23   Fighting
   
93.24   Collar or harness required
   
93.25   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
93.26   Liability of owner
   
93.27   Impoundment
   
93.28   Dangerous dogs
   
93.29   Female dogs in season
   
93.30   Abandonment
Rabies
   
93.45   Proclamation of danger
   
93.46   Capture impossible
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 93.02 ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   Fowls; running at large.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens,
turkeys, geese or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits,
except in enclosed places on private property.
      (2)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer that any fowl owned by the person named in the complaint is running
at large or otherwise violates the provisions of this section, the Village
Marshal shall investigate the complaint and, if the situation warrants, issue a
citation to said person in violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 17-547) (Prior Code, § 6-205)
   (B)   Animals and fowls; written permission. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep on their private property any animals or fowl unless and until
they have received the written consent of the owners or lessees of the property
immediately adjoining the private property where such animals or fowl are to be
kept, and all other property owners within 150 feet of the place where such
animals or fowl are to be kept, which consent shall be filed at the office of
the Village Clerk-Treasurer and shall be subject to revocation by any of said
owners or lessees at any time. Said person shall also apply to the Village
Clerk-Treasurer for a permit from the Village Board which shall also be subject
to revocation by the Village Board at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the village, or to be tethered or staked
out in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public
way or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.04 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
         (a)   Any member of the State Patrol; any county or deputy sheriff;
any member of the police force of the village or any other city or village; or
any other public official authorized by the village or any other city or
village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules, regulations or
ordinances.
         (b)   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special investigator
appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201
while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goat, domesticated
cervine animal, ratite bird or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.07 PITTING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-210)
   (B)   Pitting prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be
employed at dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against
another. Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of
another person to a place kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly
own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting.
Nor shall any person knowingly permit any act as described in this section to
occur on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-211)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or
the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-212)
(Ord. 106, passed 12-3-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004 and 28-1005
§ 93.08 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
DOGS
§ 93.20 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   No person having the charge, custody or control of any dog shall
permit it to go loose or run at large in any public way, or upon the property
of another, or to be tethered or staked out in such a manner as to allow such
animal to reach to or pass into any public way or upon the property of another.
Every dog found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
village or upon the property of another is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (2)   Upon the signed written complaint of any affected person, filed
with the Village Clerk-Treasurer, identifying the animal, the owner of the
animal and the date, time and location such animal was in violation, the
Village Attorney shall review said complaint and if the situation meets the
statutory requirements, file a complaint and prosecute the same in the
appropriate court, with penalties in accordance with §
93.99.
   (B)   All dogs within the jurisdiction of the village, other than those upon
the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof, or upon the premises of
someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have
possession, custody or control of, or over the same, are required to be under
the immediate control of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof or of someone
duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have immediate
control over the same. Any dog observed by village personnel to be in violation
of this section may be impounded by the village personnel and may be dealt with
as provided by and set forth in §
93.27.
   (C)   If any domestic animal is found by any person to be running at large
as provided herein, it shall be presumptive evidence that the animal was not
under control and was allowed to run at large by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 266, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the village
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of a license tax in the amount
established by the Board of Trustees, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS
54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the
Board has established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog which is brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax
shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall
not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or
other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which
shall be valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee
established by the Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to the
General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 93.22 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer or animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in
the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the
provisions of this section, the village police or animal control officer shall
investigate the complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants,
notify the owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.23 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.25 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602 and 54-606
§ 93.27 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Village personnel or law enforcement may capture, secure and remove in
a humane manner to an animal shelter designated by the Village Board which
shall destroy and bury, as hereinafter provided, any and all dogs that are not
licensed as provided in §
93.21, or that, whether licensed or not, are found to be running at large in
violation of §
93.20 or are dangerous animals in violation of §
93.28.
   (B)   No licensed animal taken by village personnel, or by any law
enforcement officer of the county as provided in this section shall be killed
until at least ten days have expired after its impounding. Unlicensed animals
shall be held at least three days before being destroyed.
   (C)   The village shall utilize a safe, suitable and conveniently located
animal shelter for the impounding, keeping and destruction of domestic animals,
where all animals shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided
with adequate food and fresh water each day.
   (D)   For animals found to be running at large, the period of impounding
shall constitute the time allowed for the owner to claim or redeem his or her
dog. For every dog so claimed or redeemed, the owner shall pay redemption fees
as follows:
      (1)   Thirty dollars per day for the first day of impounding and $15 per
day for each day thereafter, for the first occasion of impounding such dog or
cat, to a maximum of $100, plus applicable licensing fees;
      (2)   Forty-five dollars per day for the first day of impounding and $15
per day for each day thereafter, for the second occasion of impounding such dog
or cat, to a maximum of $150, plus applicable licensing fees;
      (3)   Fifty dollars per day for the first day of impounding and $15 per
day for each day thereafter, for the third or more occasion of impounding such
dog or cat, to a maximum of $200, plus applicable licensing fees; and
      (4)   Applicable impounding fees and the costs of disposal of the dog or
cat, in the event that the owner does not claim the animal or orders the
disposal of the animal.
   (E)   The shelter personnel shall release, during such period, from the
animal shelter any dog found running at large to any person who proves
ownership thereof; provided, that before such animal is released, adequate
proof shall be presented that all redemption, impound and licensing fees and
all penalties have been paid and that such animal has been vaccinated against
rabies as provided in §
93.21. Any owner who fails to redeem his or her animal within the time provided
shall be liable as provided in division (D) above and for the costs of disposal
of the animal. If possible, village personnel shall notify the owner of any
licensed animal of any impoundment. Such notice shall be by personal service or
mailed to the address appearing on the license application.
   (F)   Any animal that remains in the shelter beyond the applicable
impoundment period without being claimed, redeemed or released shall be
destroyed and buried as provided in this section, unless, in the judgment of
the shelter, a suitable home may be found for such animal. If a suitable home
is found for any such dog within the corporate limits of the village, the
person taking such animal from the animal shelter shall first present to the
Village Clerk-Treasurer a license and metallic tag, microchip or tattoo for
that particular animal and a receipt for the payment of the shelter fee and any
other penalties provided in this chapter. The village acquires legal title to
any animal impounded in its animal shelter at the expiration of the applicable
impoundment period.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 157, passed 3-7-2005; Ord. 266, passed 11-1-2022)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer and
the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
      LIVESTOCK. Includes buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in
any zoo, wildlife park, refuge, wildlife area or nature center intended to be
on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed healthcare professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   Actions required; limitations on transport; permanent relocation.
      (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   Confinement required; warning signs.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   Injury.
      (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious
bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor
for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 93.29 FEMALE DOGS IN SEASON.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a
female dog to permit her to run at large within the municipality while in
season.
   (B)   Any such female dog found running at large in violation of this
section shall be declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded
according to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any dog or other animal
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) Penalty, see §
93.99
RABIES
§ 93.45 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   (A)   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species
of rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed.
   (B)   The animal may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a
house, garage or yard on the premises on which the owner may reside. Upon
issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such species shall muzzle or
confine the animal as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.46 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Village Marshal shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
   Rehabilitation, demotion, repair of buildings, see Neb. RS 18-1722
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Disorderly spectator
   
94.02   Equipment
   
94.03   Interference
   
94.04   Obstruction
   
94.05   Assistance
   
94.06   Driving over hose
   
94.07   False alarm
   
94.08   Poisonous and flammable gases
Fire Prevention
   
94.20   Fire Prevention Code
   
94.21   Fire Code enforcement
   
94.22   Merger
Explosives
   
94.35   Storage registration
   
94.36   Blasting permits
   
94.37   Transportation
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 32
   Offenses involving fire equipment, see §
130.05
   Unlawful burning of trash, see §
51.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 94.02 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 94.04 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of said hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the owner
or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 94.05 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 94.06 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 94.07 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas in excess of ten gallons or add to, enlarge or replace
any facility used for the storage of such gases, must first get permission from
the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body shall require the name of the gas, the place of
storage and the amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the governing
body shall prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary actions as they
may deem necessary.
   (C)   Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this ordinance; provided, that any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 94.20 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein,
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 and 81-502
§ 94.21 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 94.22 MERGER.
   (A)   The Municipal Fire Department may be merged with the Rural Fire
Protection District. The proceedings for the merger may be initiated by the
presentation to the County Clerk of a petition, signed by 60% or more of the
electors who are owners of any interest in real or personal property assessed
for taxation in the territory to be merged and who are residing within the
boundaries of such territory, stating the desires and purposes of such
petitioners. The petition shall contain a description of the boundaries of the
territory proposed to be merged and it shall be accompanied by a map or plat
and a deposit for publication costs.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall examine the tax schedules in the office of the
County Assessor and determine and certify whether or not such petition complies
with the requirements of this section and that the persons signing the petition
appear to reside within the boundaries described by such petition. Thereafter,
the County Clerk shall forward such petition, map or plat and certificate to
the Board of Directors of the District and the governing body affected by such
merger.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receiving the petition, map or plat and
certificate of the County Clerk, in accordance with this section, the Board of
Directors and the governing body shall transmit the petition, map or plat and
certificate to the proper County Board, accompanied by a report in writing
approving or disapproving the proposal contained in the petition, or approving
such proposal in part and disapproving it in part.
   (D)   The County Clerk shall designate a time and place for a hearing before
a joint meeting of the County Boards of all counties in which the proposed
district is to be situated and shall give notice of such hearing by publication
two weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the county, the last
publication appearing at least seven days prior to said hearing. At the time
and place so fixed, the County Board shall meet, and said hearing shall be held
respecting the merger or location of the boundaries of the District. Thereupon,
the County Board shall determine the boundaries of the proposed District,
whether as suggested in the petition or otherwise and make a written order of
such determination which shall describe the boundaries of the District and be
filed in the office of the County Clerk.
   (E)   If the report of the Board of Directors and the governing body require
under this section disapproves the proposal, the petition shall be rejected. If
the report is favorable to such proposal, either in whole or in part, the
County Board shall promptly designate a time and place for a hearing upon the
petition and shall give notice of the hearing by publication two weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation within the county, the last publication
appearing at least seven days prior to said hearing.
   (F)   The County Board shall, at or shortly after the hearing, determine
whether such territory shall be merged and shall fix the boundaries of the
territory to be merged. The determination of the County Board shall be set
forth in a written order which shall describe the boundaries determined upon
and shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall
then fix a time and place for a public meeting of all electors who are owners
of any interest in real or personal property assessed for taxation in the
District who are residing within the boundaries. A Board of Directors shall be
elected consisting of five residents of the District.
   (G)   Such merged District shall operate under the same mill levy limit as
the Rural Fire Protection District.
(Prior Code, § 7-203) (Ord. 65, passed 10-2-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 35-506, 35-508, 35-509, 35-511 and 35-530
through 35-536
EXPLOSIVES
§ 94.35 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other high explosives within the
municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
within ten days after such explosives are brought into the municipality. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and
to the governing body. All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder and
nitroglycerine shall be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at
all times, except when actually in use. Such cement, metal or stone receptacle
shall not be located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the municipality must
secure a permit from the governing body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction.
(Prior Code, § 7-402)
§ 94.37 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the municipal police and shall take such
precautions and use such route as he or she may prescribe. Nothing herein shall
be construed to apply to the municipal police, or any of the armed services of
the United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than 15 minutes within the municipality and in the event of
mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
Village Marshal who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary
to protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal
of the vehicle from the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-501)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Public policy
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Discriminatory practices
   
95.04   Unlawful
   
95.05   Exceptions
   
95.06   Commission established
   
95.07   Procedure
   
95.08   State law
   
95.09   Limitations
§ 95.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is hereby declared that discriminatory practices as defined in §
95.03 are against the public policies of the village.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERING MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   DISCRIMINATE. To make distinctions in treatment.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more minors being domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual; or
         (b)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody,
with the written permission of the parent or other person.
      (2)   The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current, illegal use of or addiction to
a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Includes lease, sublease, let and otherwise grant for consideration
the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status or ancestry.
   TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. Any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, re-pairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.03 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be a discriminatory practice:
      (1)   To refuse to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   To refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   To fail to design and construct covered multi-family dwellings for
first occupancy after September 1, 1991, in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of the federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of
1988, being Pub. Law 100-430, one hundredth Congress, 102 Stat. 1619.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 UNLAWFUL.
   Except as exempted herein, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or to otherwise make unavailable
or deny, refuse to show or refuse to receive and to transmit an offer for a
dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status or sex;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of the services
or facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status or sex;
   (C)   To make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex or an
intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   To cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex of
a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any housing;
   (F)   To include in any transfer, sale, rental or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
   (G)   To discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s or agent’s
compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   To induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status or sex;
   (I)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available.
   (J)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
      (1)   Such person;
      (2)   Any person associated with such person; and
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available.
   (K)   For any person or other entity whose business includes engaging in
transactions related to residential real estate, to discriminate against any
person in making available such a transaction or in the terms or conditions of
such a transaction because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status or national origin;
   (L)   To deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership or participation on account of race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status or sex;
   (M)   To coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person in the
exercise or enjoyment of or on account of the person have exercised or enjoyed
or having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise of benefits and
rights guaranteed by this chapter;
   (N)   To refuse to sell or lease a dwelling to an individual on the basis
that the individual, a member of the individual’s family or a person who will
be residing with the individual is suffering or is suspected of suffering from
human immunodeficiency virus infection or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome;
and
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling or to
discriminate against the applicant in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of race, color, religion, national origin or sex of such
person or of any person associated with the applicant in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners,
lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which
such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall:
   (A)   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of
real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status;
   (B)   Prohibit conduct against the person because such person has been
convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or
distribution of a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401;
   (C)   Require that a dwelling be made available to an individual whose
tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others;
   (D)   Prohibit a religious organization, association or society or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or
in association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex;
   (E)   Prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than commercial purposes, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving preference to its
members; and/or
   (F)   Prohibit or limit the right of any person or his or her authorized
representative to refuse to rent a room or rooms in his or her own home for any
reason, or for no reason, or to change tenants in his or her own home as often
as desired, except that this exception shall not apply to any person who makes
available for rental occupancy more than four sleeping rooms to a person or
family within his or her own home.
(Prior Code, § 10-405) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.06 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A Fair Housing Commission is hereby established consisting of members
appointed by the Village Chairperson with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, said Commission terms shall be for five years from the beginning of the
year in which appointment is made. Appointment for a shorter term may occur for
the purpose of maintaining an appropriate staggering of terms. In the event
that a vacancy occurs in the membership by death, resignation or otherwise
prior to the normal expiration of the appointee’s term, the Chairperson with
the approval of the Village Board shall appoint a person to serve out the
remaining term of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Any member or all members of the Commission may be removed from office
at any time by the Village Chairperson with the approval of the Village Board.
No person shall serve on the Commission for more than five years.
(Prior Code, § 10-406) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.07 PROCEDURE.
   In order to protect the rights of all parties, the following procedures are
hereby established for filing, investigating and hearing complaints involving
discrimination.
   (A)   Complaints. In the event that any person is alleged to have committed
an act of discrimination, the aggrieved person may file a sworn complaint in
writing with the Secretary of the Fair Housing Commission. Said complaint shall
set out the name or names of the alleged party, the statement of the act and
the time and place of the commission of the act.
   (B)   Investigation and conciliation.
      (1)   The Fair Housing Commission shall consider each complaint during an
executive session. In each instance where two-thirds majority of the members of
the Commission are of the opinion that an act of discrimination under the
provisions of this chapter may have been committed, it shall appoint a member
of one or more members of the Commission to call upon the person alleged to
have committed the act of discrimination (hereinafter referred to as
respondent). This Committee shall attempt to determine whether or not such an
act has in fact been committed and to effect conciliation between the parties,
and to obtain commitments designed to prevent the reoccurrence of the
complained of matter.
      (2)   In the event the Committee is successful in effecting conciliation
between the parties and becomes convinced that no discriminatory act was
committed, the complaint and all proceedings by the Commission and Committee
shall be and remain confidential. Any disclosure except as authorized by the
aggrieved person and respondent shall be grounds for removal from office. The
Commission may, however, publish results of the work in official reports
omitting the names of the parties and any factual items which would identify
the parties.
   (C)   Waiting period. Before a public hearing is held as a consequence of
division (D) below, a 30-day period shall pass in an attempt to effect a
reconciliation.
   (D)   Public hearing. In the event the respondent refuses to meet with the
Committee selected by the Fair Housing Commission, or if the Committee fails in
obtaining conciliation between the parties or in obtaining commitment against
reoccurrence, the Committee shall so report the matter to the Fair Housing
Commission. The Chairperson may fix a time and place for public hearing on the
complaint. A written statement of charges made in the complaint shall be served
upon the respondent and written notice of the time and place of the public
hearing. The hearing shall be held not less than 20 days after the service of
the statement of charges. The respondent shall have the right to file an answer
to the statement of charges, to appear at the hearing personally or be
represented by an attorney and to cross-examine witnesses. The hearing shall
not be conducted following the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of
law except that the respondent shall have the right to confront any and all
witnesses against him or her and the right to refuse to testify against himself
or herself. All testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath. If, upon
all the evidence presented, the Commission finds that the respondent has
committed an act of discrimination, the Commission shall set forth its findings
of fact and shall issue and cause to be served upon the respondent such orders
as the Commission deems just and equitable.
   (E)   Enforcement. In the event the respondent falls to comply with any
order issued by the Commission, the Commission shall certify the matter to the
Village Chairperson for appropriate action including enforcement proceedings in
a district court.
(Prior Code, § 10-407) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.08 STATE LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter shall diminish or restrict the village, the
Commission or the person from exercising their rights, and the Commission or
the Village Board may at any stage of the proceeding provided for herein
decline to take further action and refer the matter to the State Equal
Opportunity Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-408) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
§ 95.09 LIMITATIONS.
   No action shall be brought about under the provisions of this chapter unless
the written complaint shall have been filed within 30 days of the commission of
alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) (Ord. 108, passed 7-7-1992)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Fire insurance companies
   
110.03   Collection dates
   
110.04   Certificates
   
110.05   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses.
 
Alcoholic beverages
   Class C licenses, per year   $500
Fire insurance companies, per year $5
 
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 110.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 110.03 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
that any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give a
receipt, properly dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount
paid. Any revenue collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer except as otherwise specifically provided. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or
her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One
copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
§ 110.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this subchapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due. All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed
by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by
the president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above,
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
      (2)   In particular, it will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of
an application if there is tangible evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
peddlers, itinerant merchants, solicitors and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in
§
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as
provided in §
111.05.
   (C)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
112.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
Licenses Required
   
112.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.16   Licensee requirements
   
112.17   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
112.18   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
112.19   Display of license
   
112.20   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
112.21   Employer liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
Retail Establishments
   
112.35   Location
   
112.36   Access to dwellings
   
112.37   Sanitary conditions
   
112.38   Credit sales prohibited
   
112.39   Spiking beer
   
112.40   Original package
   
112.41   Hours of sale
   
112.42   Hiring minors
   
112.43   Special designated liquor permits
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.51 shall be used.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 112.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 112.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation:
         (a)    If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fund-raising events, legally conducted
under the act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale.
Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be
identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the
rules and regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the
manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the
exhibition, festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of
the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a Trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 112.17 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or
any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly
enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission and, after the
hearing the Board of Trustees, shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the Commission by first
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision
shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses
to issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license
issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds two times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 112.18 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law
of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and
each bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer by three or more residents of the village on or before February 10,
or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing
to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 112.19 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 EMPLOYER LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
112.99
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.35 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall submit a
written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver. The application shall include:
      (1)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
      (2)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
      (3)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (D)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is: surrounded by property owned by the
college or university, including any public or private easement, street or
right-of-way adjacent to the property owned by the college or university; or
adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or university
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 112.36 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 112.38 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter or services rendered; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class
C license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be
signed by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of said
members or guests in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in said hotel and
charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-114) (Ord. 63, passed 10-2-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 112.39 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-115) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.40 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any
person to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks
or other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original
packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons or their agents to sell
any alcoholic liquors within the municipality except during the times provided
herein.
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular days
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
Off-sale 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On-sale  12:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Beer
Secular days
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
Off-sale 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
On-sale  12:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 74, passed 11-7-1977; Ord. 61, passed 10-2-1978;
Ord. 119, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 138, passed 6-4-1999) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 112.42 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 SPECIAL DESIGNATED LIQUOR PERMITS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees does hereby designate the Village Clerk-
Treasurer as the agent for the Village Board of Trustees for the sole and only
purpose of approving or denying the issuance of a special designated permit for
the consumption of alcoholic liquor at a designated location. Such approval or
denial shall be considered as the determination of the Village Board of
Trustees unless, after denial by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, the person filing
for the permit files a written request with the Village Clerk-Treasurer to be
heard before the Village Board of Trustees. Upon the filing of such request,
said matter shall be heard de novo by the Village Board of Trustees at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (B)   The following criteria are hereby adopted as prerequisites to the
approval of a special designated permit:
      (1)   The applicant has met all the requirements set forth in Neb. RS 53-
124.11 and all rules and regulations as promulgated by the State Liquor Control
Commission;
      (2)   The designated location is appropriate and proper and does not
otherwise prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor thereon;
      (3)   The special designated permit and the designated location shall not
allow or permit the selling or dispensing of liquor to minors because of its
designated location;
      (4)   The designated location shall not have had any liquor violations
occur within the past year; and
      (5)   The applicant shall not have been found guilty of violating liquor
license laws of the state or the village within the past five years.
(Prior Code, § 10-107.5) (Ord. 10-107.5, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Malicious mischief
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Fire equipment
   
130.06   Trash
   
130.07   Posting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of division (D)(2) above, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means
an aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) below.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure or
thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery or
property of historic value.
   (B)   Any such offender shall also be liable, in an action for trespass in
the name of the beneficial holder of said property, for all damages which arise
from the commission of such unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and
without lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the governing body to do so, and the written permit of the governing body in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 70, passed 11-7-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.05 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage, leaves, papers
or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.07 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Conviction of violation of §
130.03 shall be punishable by a fine not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Disturbing the peace
   
131.02   Vagrancy
   
131.03   Loitering
Excessive Noise
   
131.15   Findings
   
131.16   Excessive noise prohibited
   
131.17   Standards; particular noises
   
131.18   Exemptions
   
131.19   Special permit
   
131.20   Nuisance
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 VAGRANCY.
   Any person not having visible means of support and maintenance and who shall
live without employment; all persons wandering about and living in sheds, barns
or in the open air; all persons who go about begging and soliciting alms; any
and all prostitutes, keepers, occupants and pimps of houses of prostitution;
and all persons who are commonly engaged in gambling shall be deemed to be and
are hereby declared to be vagrants.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private property
utilized for public use so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person
to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any building open
to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public,
including those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing
them.
Penalty, see §
131.99
EXCESSIVE NOISE
§ 131.15 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The making and creation of excessive or unusually loud noises within
the corporate limits of the village are a detriment to the comfort, convenience
and welfare of the inhabitants of the village and may, if unusually loud or
prolonged repetitively, affect the health and safety of said inhabitants.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this subchapter are made for the purpose
of promoting and protecting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety and
welfare of its inhabitants and the peace and quiet of the village through the
elimination of unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 131.16 EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive or unusually loud noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, peace, quiet,
health or safety of others, within the corporate limits of the village;
provided, that this section shall not apply to noise that by §
131.18 is declared to be exempt from the provisions of this section, or to
noise caused or permitted by a person to whom a permit has been granted as
provided in §
131.19.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 STANDARDS; PARTICULAR NOISES.
   Excessive and unusually loud noises in violation of §
131.16 include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Animals, birds, miscellaneous pets. The keeping of any animal or bird
which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or
repose of any person in the vicinity;
   (B)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan,
unless such blower or fan is muffled sufficiently to prevent loud noises
therefrom;
   (C)   Construction, repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a
permit in writing from the Building Inspector, which permit may be granted for
a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues, and
which permit may be renewed for periods of three days or less while the
emergency continues. If the Building Inspector determines that the public peace
and quiet, health and safety will not be impaired by the excavation, erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building or lot or sidewalk between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and, if he or she shall further determine
that loss or inconvenience would otherwise result to any party requesting, he
or she may grant permission for such work to be done between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or certain hours incorporated therein, upon application
being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the
progress of the work. If the Village Board shall, by resolution, determine that
unusual circumstances, including, but not limited to, the aftermath of a severe
storm, exist throughout the village which circumstances necessitate a large
volume of construction or repair work throughout a large portion of the
village, the Village Board may declare that, notwithstanding provisions of this
section, the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of buildings and
sidewalks may occur between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., during any
of the week and the period of time stipulated by the Village Board in the
resolution;
   (D)   Defect in vehicles; load. The operation of any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair or so loaded or in such manner as
to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (E)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, tractor, steam engine, stationary internal combustion
engine or motorboat, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom. The muffler of a motor
vehicle or motorcycle shall be of a type that will muffle noise not less
effectively than the standard muffler with which a vehicle of that type
originally was equipped by the manufacturer of the vehicle, shall not be of a
design that permits operation in a manner allowing greater noise and shall be
kept in good repair;
   (F)   Horns; signaling, other devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any motor vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or
public place of the village, except as a danger warning and except when
authorized by the Chief of Police for public celebrations, the use of any horn,
whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such
signaling device by which traffic is for any reason held up;
   (G)   Pile drivers, hammers, equipment. The operation between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noise, except with the written permission of the
Building Inspector if the Building Inspector determines that the public peace
and quiet, health and safety will not be impaired and that loss or
inconvenience would result to the requesting party. The permitted hours of
operation are to be stated in the permit;
   (H)   Quiet zones. The creation of an excessive noise within any quiet zone
established by the Village Board which unreasonably interferes with the use of
the premises or disturbs or unduly annoys occupants or users of the premises
for the benefit of whom the quiet zone has been established;
   (I)   Shouting, hallooing. Shouting or loud hallooing which unreasonably
interferes with the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (J)   Sound reproduction. The use or operation of any radio or other
mechanical or electrical devices or instruments amplifying and reproducing the
human voice, or any sound or noise, in any public or private place, or from any
vehicle, in such manner that the peace and quiet of the neighborhood are
disturbed, or that persons owning, using or occupying property in the
neighborhood are disturbed or annoyed, provided that the Sheriff or Chief Law
Enforcement Official may allow same as specified elsewhere in this code;
provided, further, that the Village Board may grant permission for the erection
and use of temporary speakers and other mechanical or electrical devices
amplifying and reproducing the human voice, or instruments or other sound or
noise at a fixed location, or on moving vehicles. Provided, however, such
reproduction and amplification, as part of a celebration or commemoration of a
patriotic or historic event, or national or state holiday, or local
celebration, at gatherings of a public nature are specifically exempted; and
provided, further, the Village Board, in granting any such permission, shall
expressly designate the time such permission shall continue;
   (K)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of
village authorities; and
   (L)   Engine brakes. The use of engine brakes on any vehicle within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following noises shall be exempt from the provisions of the preceding
sections:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure-
relief valves;
   (B)   Noises caused by any Police or Fire Department vehicle or any
authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or acting in
time of emergency; or
   (C)   Noises caused by the operation of snow removal equipment being used to
remove snow or street cleaning or sweeping equipment.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 131.19 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   An application for a permit to cause or permit noise otherwise prohibited by
this chapter on the basis of undue hardship, may be made to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, or another village employee designated by the Village Board to
perform this function, who may grant the relief as applied for if he or she
finds that:
   (A)   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify his
or her activity or operation to comply with these prohibitions;
   (B)   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary duration
and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this section; and
   (C)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant. The
Village Clerk-Treasurer may prescribe any conditions or requirements he or she
deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 6-322) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 131.20 NUISANCE.
   The making of a noise or noises in violation of these provisions is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated as such. This remedy is in
addition to and not in lieu of other remedies provided by this chapter for
violation of such section.
(Prior Code, § 6-323) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §
131.16, or of any provision of a permit granted as provided in §
131.19, is punishable by a fine of up to $200 per occurrence or, if continuous,
by a fine of $200 for each day of uninterrupted continuance.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) (Ord. 210, passed 12-1-2014)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Appliances in yard
   
132.02   Weeds, litter and stagnant water
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
132.15   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.16   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
132.30   Discharge of firearms
   
132.31   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 132.02 WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such
work is done, the municipality may either: levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed; or
recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to: Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage,
paper, rags and ashes; wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
grass, leaves and worthless vegetation; offal and dead animals; and any machine
or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a machine or vehicle which have
lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-313) (Ord. 124-B, passed 8-14-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
   Weeds and littler; nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-563
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 132.15 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this definition.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the village
shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1) above also notifies the
village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   (a)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal.
         (b)   A private towing service that tows the vehicle shall notify,
within 24 hours, the designated law enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from
which the vehicle is removed and provide the registration plate number, the
vehicle identification number, if available, the make, model and color of the
vehicle, and the name of the private towing service and the location, if
applicable, where the private towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle
towed away under this division (E)(3) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through
52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this village, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from public
property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle described
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 132.16 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall store, retain or keep on or permit to be stored,
retained or kept on, in a lot or tract of land within the village, any machine,
vehicle or part of a machine or vehicle which has lost its identity, character,
utility or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the
ravages of time; which is inoperative or unable to perform its intended
function or which is cast off, discarded, thrown away or left as waste,
wreckage or junk; or which has been unlicensed for a period in excess of four
months under the laws of the state.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Such motor vehicle, motor vehicle bodies, motor vehicle chassis or
parts therefrom that are kept in a completely enclosed building;
      (2)   Premises for which a permit has been granted to a junk dealer;
      (3)   Premises on which a licensed motor vehicle dealer or a farm
implement dealer conducts his or her business;
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village; or
      (5)   Any historical vehicle registered as a historical vehicle under
Neb. RS 60-3,130 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) (Ord. 72, passed 11-7-1977; Ord. 114, passed 4-5-1993)
Penalty, see §
132.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 132.30 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 132.31 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any vehicle or machine allowed to remain on property in violation of §
132.16 shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated. In addition, any person
violating §
132.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) (Ord. 72, passed 11-7-1977; Ord. 114, passed 4-5-1993)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS
      
152.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Building permits required
   
150.02   Permit fees
   
150.03   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Building Codes
   
150.15   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
150.16   International Building Code adopted
   
150.17   International Residential Code adopted
   
150.18   International Existing Building Code adopted
   
150.19   Application, amendment, interpretation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §
32.04
   Village Clerk-Treasurer, see §
31.22
   Village Inspector, see §
31.29
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the Village Clerk-Treasurer an application for
a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Village Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose.
      (2)   Every such application shall set forth the legal description of the
land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of
the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names
of the owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may be
requested thereon.
   (B)   The application, plans and specifications so filed with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer shall be checked and examined by the Board of Trustees, and if
they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and
all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Board of Trustees shall authorize
the Village Clerk-Treasurer to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a
permit fee set by the Board by resolution.
   (C)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between the permit application
procedures contained herein and those which are contained in any building code
adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fee for all permits, including residential and commercial, shall
be based on the actual cost value of the work and shall be as follows.
 
Cost/Value of Work Fee
$1 to $1,000       $30
$1,001 to $50,000  $30 plus an additional $5 for each additional $1,000 in
                   valuation
                   $30 plus an additional $5 for each additional $1,000 in
$50,001 and up     valuation up to $50,000 plus an additional $3.50 for each
                   additional $1,000 in valuation over $50,000
 
   (B)   If a permit is not obtained prior to commencement of the work, a fee
of triple the amount provided in division (A) above may be charged.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 150.03 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or
moving of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night.
   (B)   The failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to
erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this
section, and the Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority
may stop all work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable
protections are erected and maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.15 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Certain documents, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, herein after referred to as the IPMC,
including Appendix A, as published by the International Code Council, are
hereby adopted further regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance
of all existing residential and nonresidential structures and all existing
premises, constituting minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements and providing a reasonable level of
safety from fire and other hazards and for a reasonable level of sanitary
maintenance; the responsibility of owners, an owner’s authorized agent,
operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and
for administration, enforcement and penalties; and each and all regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such International Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the village are referred to, adopted
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the International Property Maintenance Code, the following sections
are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: jurisdiction means the corporate limits of
the Village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent to the
corporate boundaries;
      (2)   Section 103.5. Insert: appropriate schedule means the schedule as
adopted by resolution by the village board and kept current and on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Lodgepole;
      (3)   Section 112.4. Insert: means 0 to $200;
      (4)   Section 302.4. Insert: means 12 inches;
      (5)   Section 304.14. Insert: May 1 to September 1;
      (6)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 to April 1; and
      (7)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 to April 1.
   (C)   (1)   The International Property Maintenance Code is applicable to the
incorporated area of the village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond
and adjacent to its corporate boundaries.
      (2)   Subsequently published amendments or supplements to the
International Maintenance Code, as adopted in this section, or revisions of the
same, are hereby adopted, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in
the village without further action of the Village Board; provided, however,
that the copy of such Codes on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall
be kept current by the integration of all such amendments, supplements or
revisions.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter or in the International Property
Maintenance Code as adopted in this section shall be construed to affect any
suit or proceeding now pending in any court, or any right acquired, liability
incurred or cause of action accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance
repealed by this subchapter, nor shall any right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this subchapter.
(Ord. 265, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 150.16 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Certain documents, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2018 Edition, herein after referred to as the IBC, including
Appendix Chapters C Group U-Agricultural Buildings, Appendix E-Supplementary
Accessibility Requirements, Appendix F-Rodent Proofing, Appendix G-Flood
Resistant Construction and Appendix J-Grading, as published by the
International Code Council, are hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating
and governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and
relocation of existing buildings, including historic buildings, erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal demolition,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings, except one- and two-family residences which are covered under the
International Residential Code: providing for the issuance of permits and
collections of fees therefor; and each and all regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of such International Building Code on file in
the office of the village are referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this section with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the International Building Code, the following sections are hereby
revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: jurisdiction means the corporate limits of
the Village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent to the
corporate boundaries;
      (2)   Section 1612.3. Insert: jurisdiction means the corporate limits of
the Village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent to the
corporate boundaries; and
      (3)   Section 1612.3. Insert: date means December 17, 2021.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 150.17 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Certain documents, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated in total as the
International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as the
IRC, published by the International Code Council, including the generic
resistive assembles listed in the Fire Residence Design Manual, published by
the Gypsum Association, as referred by the IBC and the IRC, are hereby adopted
for the purpose of regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of all one- and two-family
dwellings; providing for the issuance of permits and collections of fees
therefor; and each and all regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of such International Residential Code on file in the office of the
village are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this legislation with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the International Residential Code, the following sections are
hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: jurisdiction means the corporate limits of
the Village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent to the
corporate boundaries;
      (2)   Section 301.2(1). Insert: the following table:
       Wind Design                              Subject to Damage from          Ice
Ground                         Wind-  Seismic                            Winter Barrier           Air      Mean
Snow   Speedd Topo-    Special borne  Design    Weather- Frost           Design Underlay- Flood   Freezing Annual
Load o (mph)  graphic  Wind    Debris Categoryf inga     Line   Termitec Temp   ment      Hazardg Indexi   Tempj
              Effectsk Regionl Zonem                     Depthb                 Requiredh
       Wind Design                                  Subject to Damage from               Ice
Ground                          Wind-    Seismic                                         Barrier           Air      Mean
Snow   Speedd Topo-    Special  borne    Design     Weather- Frost           Winter      Underlay- Flood   Freezing Annual
Load o (mph)  graphic  Wind     Debris   Categoryf  inga     Line   Termitec Design Temp ment      Hazardg Indexi   Tempj
              Effectsk Regionl  Zonem                        Depthb                      Requiredh

—    —    —      —      —      —        —      —    —                  —       —     —      —
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
                                Winter   Summer     Altitude Correction      Interior    Design            Heating
Elevation              Latitude Heating  Cooling    Factore                  Design      Temperature       temperature
                                                                             Temperature Cooling           difference
3,832                  N4109    1°      91°       —                      -           -                 -
Cooling Temperature    Wind     Wind     Coincident                          Winter
Difference             Velocity Velocity Wet Bulb   Daily Range              Humidity    Summer Humidity
                       Heating  Cooling
-                      —      —      —        —                      -           -
For SI: 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kPa, 1 mile per hour = 0.447 m/s.
   a. Where weathering requires a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry than necessary to satisfy the structural
requirements of this code, the frost line depth strength required for weathering shall govern. The weathering column shall
be filled in with the weathering index, “negligible,” “moderate” or “severe” for concrete as determined from Figure R301.2
(1). The grade of masonry units shall be determined from ASTM C34, ASTM C55, ASTM C62, ASTM C73, ASTM C90, ASTM C129, ASTM
C145, ASTM C216 or ASTM C652.
   b. Where the frost line depth requires deeper footings than indicated in Figure R403.1(1), the frost line depth
strength required for weathering shall govern. The jurisdiction shall fill in the frost line depth column with the minimum
depth of footing below finish grade.
   c. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table to indicate the need for protection depending on whether there
has been a history of local subterranean termite damage.
   d. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the wind speed from the basic wind speed map (Figure
R301.2(2)). Wind exposure category shall be determined on a site-specific basis in accordance with Section R301.2.1.4.
   e. The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table to establish the design criteria using Table 10A from ACCA
Manual J or established criteria determined by the jurisdiction.
   f. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the seismic design category determined from Section
R301.2.2.1.
   g. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with: the date of the jurisdiction’s entry into the National
Flood Insurance Program (date of adoption of the first code or ordinance for management of flood hazard areas); and the
title and date of the currently effective Flood Insurance Study or other flood hazard study and maps adopted by the
authority having jurisdiction, as amended.
   h. In accordance with Sections R905.1.2, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1, R905.6.3.1, R905.7.3.1 and R905.8.3.1, where there has
been a history of local damage from the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with
“YES.” Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with “NO.”
   i. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the 100-year return period air freezing index (BF-days)
from Figure R403.3(2) or from the 100-year (99 percent) value on the National Climatic Data Center data table “Air
Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32°F).”
   j. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the mean annual temperature from the National Climatic
Data Center data table “Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base 32°F).”
   k. In accordance with Section R301.2.1.5, where there is local historical data documenting structural damage to
buildings due to topographic wind speed-up effects, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with “YES.”
Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
   l. In accordance with Figure R301.2(2), where there is local historical data documenting unusual wind conditions, the
jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with “YES” and identify any specific requirements. Otherwise, the
jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
   m. In accordance with Section R301.2.1.2 the jurisdiction shall indicate the wind-borne debris wind zone(s). Otherwise,
the jurisdiction shall indicate “NO” in this part of the table.
   n. The jurisdiction shall fill in these sections of the table to establish the design criteria using Table 1a or 1b
from ACCA Manual J or established criteria determined by the jurisdiction.
   o. The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table using the Ground Snow Loads in Figures R301.2(3) and R301.2
(4).
 
      (3)   Section 2603.5.1. Insert the following: Sewer depth. Building
sewers that connect to private sewage disposal systems shall be not less than
30 inches below finished grade at the point of septic tank connection. Building
sewers shall be not less than 24 inches below grade.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 150.18 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Certain documents, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, being marked and designated in total as the
International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition, hereinafter refer to as the
IEBC, published by the International Code Council, are hereby adopted for the
purpose of regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use,
height, area and maintenance of all existing buildings; providing for the
issuance of permits and collections of fees therefor; and each and all
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of such International
Existing Building Code on file in the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
legislation with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any
prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the International Existing Building Code, the following sections
are hereby revised: Section 101.1. Insert: jurisdiction means the corporate
limits of the Village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent
to the corporate boundaries.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 150.19 APPLICATION, AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The International Building Code, the International Residential Code
and the International Existing Building Code are applicable to the incorporated
area of the village and the unincorporated area one mile beyond and adjacent to
its corporate boundaries.
   (B)   Subsequently published amendments or supplements to the International
Building Code, the International Residential Code and the International
Existing Building Code, as adopted in this subchapter, or revisions of the
same, are hereby adopted and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
village without further action of the Village Board of Trustees; provided,
however, that the copy of such Codes on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be kept current by the integration of all such amendments,
supplements or revisions.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter or in the International Building Code,
International Residential Code or International Existing Building Code as
adopted in this subchapter shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding
now pending in any court, or any right acquired, liability incurred or cause of
action accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed by this
subchapter, nor shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this subchapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $200 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-402)
(Ord. 259, passed 6-7-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Deployment in the right-of-way
   
151.04   Agreement for use of the right-of-way
   
151.05   Administrative review
   
151.06   Right-of-way construction and installation requirements
   
151.07   Attachment to and replacement of decorative poles
   
151.08   General work requirements
   
151.09   Location of new facilities
   
151.10   Removal, relocation and abandonment
   
151.11   Indemnification
   
151.12   Insurance
   
151.13   Independent technical and legal review
   
151.14   Shot clocks
   
151.15   Relief
   
151.16   Other approvals
   
151.17   Conflicts
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the “Small
Wireless Facilities Regulations for the Right-of-Way.”
      (2)   It is the purpose of these provisions to delineate restrictions,
development standards and siting criteria and establish removal procedures in
order to protect the municipality from the uncontrolled siting of wireless
communication facilities in locations that have significant adverse effects and
cause irreparable harm.
   (B)   The legislature found and declared in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act that:
      (1)   The deployment of small wireless facilities and other next-
generation wireless facilities is a matter of statewide concern and interest
and public policy;
      (2)   Wireless products and services are a significant and continually
growing part of the state’s economy and that encouraging the development of
strong and robust wireless communications networks throughout the state is
necessary to address public need and policy and is integral to the state’s
economic competitiveness;
      (3)   Rapid deployment of small wireless facilities will serve numerous
important statewide goals and public policy, including meeting growing consumer
demand for wireless data, increasing competitive options for communications
services available to the state’s residents, improving the ability of the
state’s residents to communicate with other residents and with their state and
local governments and promoting public safety;
 
      (4)   Small wireless facilities, including facilities commonly referred
to as small cells and distributed antenna systems, are deployed most
effectively in public rights-of-way;
      (5)   To meet the public need and policy and the key objectives of the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act that wireless providers must have
access to the public rights-of-way to densify their networks and provide next-
generation wireless services;
      (6)   Uniform procedures, rates and fees for permit issuance and
deployment of small wireless facilities in public rights-of-way and on
authority infrastructure, including poles, throughout the state that are
reasonable and will encourage the development of robust next-generation
wireless networks for the benefit of residents throughout the state; and
      (7)   The procedures, rates and fees in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, together with any taxes, fees or charges imposed under Neb. RS
86-704 are fair and reasonable when viewed from the perspective of the state’s
residents and the state’s interest in having robust, reliable and
technologically advanced wireless networks and reflect a balancing of the
interests of the wireless providers deploying new facilities and the interests
of authorities in receiving fair value by recovering their costs of managing
access to the public rights-of-way and provide for the attachment space on
authority infrastructure and enable the reviewing and processing of
applications for the installation of small wireless facilities within the
rights-of-way.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, see Neb. RS 86-1201 et seq.
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being Neb. RS 86-1201
through 86-1244.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
the Act and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the authority and are
generally applicable in the jurisdiction.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to an authority for
a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure or for a permit for approval for the installation,
modification or replacement of a utility pole to support the installation of a
small wireless facility.
   AUTHORITY. The state or any agency, county, city, village or other political
subdivision thereof, except as otherwise excluded herein. AUTHORITY does not
include public power suppliers, state courts having jurisdiction over an
authority, or an entity that does not have zoning or permit-granting authority.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed or operated by or on behalf of
an authority.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components,
including wires, cables and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, a provider of information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 153(24), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless
services provider, to provide communications services, including cable service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(8), as such section existed on January 1, 2019,
an information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, wireless services, or other one-way or two-way
communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522, as
such section existed on January 1, 2019, an information service as defined in
47 U.S.C. § 153, as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such sections
existed on January 1, 2019. COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER includes a wireless
provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge.
   GOVERNING BODY. The group of elected officials which is able to make
decisions on behalf of the municipality (for example, the Board of Trustees).
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.I.a(i)-(v) of
the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C, as such regulation existed
on January 1, 2019, or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law
if such designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Federal, state or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order or ordinance.
   MACRO CELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and with any exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Lodgepole, Nebraska.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action, initiate, continue or complete installation of a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or attached to an existing wireless
support structure, or to install, modify or replace a utility pole to support
installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization,
including an authority.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal or other material, located or to be located
within the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement or similar property, but not
including a freeway as defined in Neb. RS 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways or a private easement.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Inspections, testing or repairs that maintain
functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a small wireless
facility and the associated structure, pole or tower, and that does not involve
impeding, damaging or disturbing any portion of the right-of-way.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative or an electric membership
association that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class or city of the first class.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height,
including the antennas or are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller
than other adjacent structures;
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17, as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. § 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. §
1.1307(b), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019.
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of STEALTH DESIGN include, but are not
limited to, facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and
light poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally, applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. That by virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility or its design or site location
can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the small
wireless facility.
   TOWER. Any structure in the right-of-way built for the sole or primary
purpose of supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet in height, shall not be included within
TOWER HEIGHT.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communication services, including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for wireline
communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures for
traffic control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include wireless support structures, any transmission
infrastructure owned or operated by a public power supplier or rural public
power supplier and any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or
operated by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular power supply and small back-up
battery, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS FACILITY includes
small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not include the structure or
improvements on, under or within the equipment which is collocated; coaxial or
fiberoptic cable that is between wireless structures or utility poles or that
is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, a
particular antenna; or a wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, when acting to build or
install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities or
wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure such as a guyed or self-supporting
tower, billboard, building or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.03 DEPLOYMENT IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Public power supplier poles. A public power supplier shall not be
required to allow the collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles
owned, operated or managed by a public power supplier except pursuant to a
negotiated pole attachment agreement containing reasonable and
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, but not limited to,
applicable rates and the permit, operational and safety requirements of the
public power supplier. The municipality is a public power supplier.
   (B)   Annual rate for collocation on public power supplier poles. The annual
pole attachment rate for the collocation of a small wireless facility supported
by or installed on a utility pole owned, operated or managed by a public power
supplier shall be fair, reasonable, nondiscriminatory, cost-based and set by
the board of such public power supplier in accordance with Neb. RS 70-655.
   (C)   Placement. This chapter only applies to the deployment of small
wireless facilities in the right-of-way with the exception that the application
fees provided in the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order
released September 27, 2018, apply to small wireless facilities in and outside
of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.04 AGREEMENT FOR USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Agreement. Prior to installing in the right-of-way any small wireless
facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
small wireless facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an agreement
with the municipality expressly authorizing use of the right-of-way for the
small wireless facility, pole or tower proposed to be installed. The agreement
shall provide for the attachment to municipal poles or structures in the right-
of-way in addition to poles or structures owned by unrelated third parties;
provided, that the applicant secures the written consent of the third party for
such attachment.
   (B)   General terms.
      (1)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to one year. The agreement
may be renewed for an additional term of one year subject to the mutual written
agreement of the municipality and provider.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes the provider’s non-exclusive use of the
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the right-of-way in which the municipality
has an actual interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any right-
of-way and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular
location or to a superior or preferred location within the right-of-way.
Nothing herein shall authorize the use of the municipality’s poles, towers,
support structures or other structures outside of the right-of-way. All use of
municipal poles, towers, support structures and other structures in the right-
of-way shall require a separate attachment agreement or be specifically
provided for in the agreement and shall include the payment of fees for such
use.
      (3)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures and towers in
the right-of-way in a safe condition and in good order and repair.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider’s small
wireless facilities, or related poles, support structures or towers, the
provider shall immediately notify the municipality of the nature of the
emergency and planned response to the emergency.
   (C)   Permit required. No person may construct, install or maintain in the
right-of-way any wireless facilities without first receiving a permit from the
municipality. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a
wireless provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the right-
of-way prior to obtaining a permit; provided, that the provider shall contact
the municipality prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as
soon as reasonably possible, but not later than 24 hours after commencing the
emergency work. For the purpose of this division (C), an EMERGENCY means a
circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities
is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or
property.
   (D)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   The application shall be submitted by the wireless provider or its
duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number and email
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
         (b)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with
respect to the filing of the application;
         (c)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (d)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached;
         (e)   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding
the proposed wireless communication facility;
         (f)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility
involves collocation on a pole, tower or support structure, a structural report
prepared by a state-licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes;
         (g)   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities,
accurate visual depictions or representations, if not included in the
construction drawings or photo simulations; and
         (h)   Any other submission requirements per published municipal
policies or regulations.
      (2)   All applications for small wireless facility installations in the
right-of-way shall be made to the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Proprietary or confidential information in application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the State
Public Records Law, being Neb. RS 84-712. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
applicant may designate portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
“proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each portion of such
materials accordingly, and the municipality shall treat the information as
proprietary and confidential, subject to the State Public Records Law and the
municipality’s determination that the applicant’s request for confidential or
proprietary treatment of application materials is reasonable and in compliance
with such law. The municipality shall not be required to incur any costs to
protect the application materials from disclosure, other than the
municipality’s routine procedures for complying with the State Public Records
Law.
   (F)   Routine maintenance and repair. A permit shall not be required for
routine maintenance and repair. The provider or other person performing the
routine maintenance and repair shall obtain any other permits required by
applicable laws and shall notify the municipality in writing at least 48 hours
before performing the routine maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Application fees and bonds. All applications pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by the requisite fees required by the municipality unless
otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by the municipality,
a performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable to the
municipality equal to at least 100% of the estimated cost of the work within
the right-of-way shall be provided before the applicant commences work.
   (H)   Effect of permit. A permit from the municipality authorizes an
applicant to undertake only the activities in the right-of-way specified in the
application and permit, and in accordance with this chapter, and any conditions
included in the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of
existing poles, towers, support structures or other structures in the right-of-
way. A permittee or wireless provider must obtain all necessary approvals from
the owner of any pole, tower, support structure or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the right-of-way.
   (I)   Duration. Any permit for construction issued under this chapter shall
be valid for a period of one year; provided, that the one-year period may be
extended for up to an additional one year upon approval by the governing body
or its designee upon the written request of the applicant (made prior to the
end of the initial one-year period) if the failure to complete construction is
as a result of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant.
   (J)   Multiple sites. An applicant may submit not more than ten sites in a
consolidated application for small wireless facilities; provided, that the
proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed on the same type
of structure using similar equipment within the municipality.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.05 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Approval process. Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way may be
approved through administrative review if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid and a permit
is obtained by the applicant or provider;
      (2)   Each new, modified or replacement pole, tower or structure
installed in the right-of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required; and
      (3)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) above, all poles and small wireless
facilities may be approved through administrative review if the following
design standards and recommended design guidelines (if adopted) are met by the
applicant:
         (a)   Height, shape, design and color for poles and related equipment;
         (b)   Number, location and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
         (c)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment;
         (d)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
         (e)   Structural integrity;
         (f)   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be
used only to house equipment in support ofthe operation of the facilities;
         (h)   Lighting, marking and noise requirements;
         (i)   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements;
         (j)   Collocation analysis;
         (k)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary; and
         (l)   A written report will be prepared, signed and sealed by a state-
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the radio frequency (“RF”) emissions limits established by the FCC. The
qualified employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with
the report.
      (2)   The governing body may approve, by resolution, additional
recommended design guidelines. Further changes to those recommended design
guidelines are subject to the discretion of the municipality.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA or applicable municipal regulation.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other agency of the
local, state or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local
building code standards.
   (D)   Public notice. For the purpose of this chapter, any application for a
small wireless facility or pole, variance, exception or appeal of a request for
a permit requires public notice to all adjoining property owners and all owners
of surrounding properties as may be required by the municipality.
   (E)   Equipment cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements.
   (F)   Site plan. A site plan is required. A scaled site plan shall clearly
indicate the location, type, height and width of the proposed pole, on-site
land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed pole and any other structures, topography, utility runs and other
information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant owning a macro cell tower shall provide to the municipality an
inventory of the wireless provider’s existing towers, antennas or sites
approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the
municipality or within one mile of the border thereof, including specific
information about the location and tower height. The municipality may share
such information with other applicants applying for administrative review or
other permits under this chapter or other organizations seeking to locate
antennas within the jurisdiction of the municipality; provided, however, that
the municipality is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing
or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (H)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers and antennas shall be painted a color that best allows them
to blend into the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze,
browns or other site-specific colors may be appropriate, however, each case
shall be evaluated individually.
   (I)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the municipality.
   (J)   Visual impact. All small wireless facilities in Residential Districts,
Historic and Downtown Districts shall be sited and designed with stealth
features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the
traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with
the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such wireless
communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed
location, design, visual environment and nearby uses, structures and natural
features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   (K)   Obstruction. Any new pole or support structure or equipment associated
with small wireless facilities shall not obstruct access to:
      (1)   Any existing above-ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities or public facilities;
      (2)   Any public infrastructure for traffic control, street light or
public transportation purposes including, without limitation, any vehicular
traffic sign or signal or pedestrian traffic sign or signal;
      (3)   Any public transportation street furniture or other improvements at
any public transportation stop;
      (4)   Fire hydrants; or
      (5)   Any doors, gates or other ingress and egress points to any building
appurtenant to the right-of-way.
   (L)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a small wireless
facility within the right-of-way or utility easement, the wireless provider
must notify all utilities located within such right-of-way or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the right-of-way or utility easement.
   (M)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider’s choice) underground, or in an
equipment cabinet that is designed to blend in with existing surroundings,
using architecturally compatible construction and colors; and located so as to
be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the proper functioning of the
wireless communication facilities.
   (N)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the municipality.
   (O)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   (P)   Maps and as-builts. The wireless provider shall furnish to the
municipality paper and electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in
the right-of-way and as-builts after construction is completed.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.08 GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance or any other work in the right-
of-way and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, municipal guidelines, standards and practices and any
additional commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone, The
manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic control
plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic control and
safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is restored
to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the municipality.
   (C)   Non-interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the right-of-way and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any right-of-way.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the right-of way,
the permittee shall comply with the State One Call Notification System Act,
being Neb. RS 76-2301 through 76-2332.
   (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The municipality
and its representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such
further information as they may require to ensure compliance with such
requirements. All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans
and specifications for the work or the requirements of this chapter shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The municipality may stop work in
order to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a small
wireless facility or pole, an applicant must obtain all other required
approvals from the municipality.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless
communication facilities so as to interfere with the use of the right-of-way by
the municipality, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use
or be present in or upon the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a right-of-way, the wireless provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense where technically
feasible. The municipality may, in its sole discretion, approve above-ground
placement of equipment cabinets, pedestals and similar equipment. For
facilities or equipment such as small wireless facilities that cannot, by their
nature, operate unless located above-ground, the wireless provider and
municipality shall work to find a suitable location for such facilities or
equipment.
   (C)   In performing any work in or affecting the right-of-way, the wireless
provider and any agent or contractor of the provider shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   (D)   (1)   The wireless provider, or its agent or contractor, shall
restore, repair and replace any portion of the right-of-way that is damaged or
disturbed by the provider’s wireless communication facilities or work in or
adjacent to the right-of-way as required in this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
      (2)   If the wireless provider fails to timely restore, repair or replace
the right-of-way as required in this division (D), the municipality or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay the municipality’s costs and
expenses in completing the restoration, repair or replacement including
attorneys’ fees and expenses
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 REMOVAL, RELOCATION AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the municipality, the
wireless provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the right-of-way, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or
installation of any municipal improvement, the operations of the municipality
in, under or upon the right-of-way, or otherwise, is in the public interest.
The wireless provider shall be responsible to the municipality for any damages
the municipality may incur as a result of the provider’s failure to remove or
relocate its wireless communication facilities.
   (B)   The municipality retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
wireless communication facility located within the right-of-way of the
municipality, as the municipality may determine, in its sole discretion, to be
necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall notify the wireless provider and
give the provider an opportunity to move its own facilities prior to cutting or
removing the wireless communication facilities. In all cases, the municipality
shall notify the wireless provider after cutting or removing the wireless
communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall notify the municipality of abandonment of
any wireless communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is
made; however, in no case shall such notification be made later than 30 days
prior to abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the wireless provider
shall remove its wireless communication facility at the provider’s own expense,
unless the municipality determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless
communication facility may be abandoned in place. The wireless provider shall
remain solely responsible and liable for all of its wireless communication
facilities until they are removed from the right-of-way unless the municipality
agrees in writing to take ownership of the abandoned wireless communication
facilities.
   (D)   If the wireless provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its
wireless communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless
communication facilities as required in this division (D), the municipality or
its contractor may do so, and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses
related to such work, including any damages the municipality incurs arising
from the delay and attorneys’ fees and expenses.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.11 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The applicant and wireless provider shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the municipality, its agents, officers, officials and employees from
any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys’ fees, costs and
expenses, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of
or in connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or
wireless provider. In the event the municipality becomes aware of any actions
or claims, the municipality shall promptly notify the applicant and wireless
provider and reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is expressly agreed that
the municipality shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the municipality’s defense,
and the applicant and the wireless provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the
municipality for any costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees directly and
necessarily incurred by the municipality in the course of the defense.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.12 INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a small wireless facility within the
municipality without having secured and at all times maintained in place
insurance coverage which conforms to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers’ compensation,
employers’ liability and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
municipality;
   (B)   For a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the municipality
and its officers, officials, employees and agents as additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best’s
rating of at least; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days’
prior written notice being given to the municipality and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amounts.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Although the municipality intends for municipal staff to review
applications to the extent feasible, the municipality may retain the services
of an independent technical consultant and attorney of its choice to provide
technical and legal evaluations of permit applications. The technical
consultant and attorney shall have recognized qualifications in the field of
small wireless facilities. The review may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent technical
consultant and attorneys’ fees through a deposit, estimated by the
municipality, within ten business days of the municipality’s request. When the
municipality requests such payment, the application shall be deemed incomplete
for purposes of application processing time lines until the deposit is
received.
         (a)   In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the deposit
amount, the municipality shall refund any unused portion within 30 days after
the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released, within 30 days
after the municipality receives a written request from the applicant.
         (b)   If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the
applicant shall pay the difference to the municipality before the permit is
issued.
      (2)   The technical consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized
description of the services provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall
be limited to a reasonable approximation of costs and the costs shall be
reasonable.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.14 SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests. This division (A) implements § 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as interpreted by the FCC in its
Report and Order No. 14-453 and the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report
and Order released September 27, 2018, which requires a state or local
government to approve any eligible facilities request for a modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not result in a substantial change to
the physical dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities
requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law, including, but not
limited to, application review, the 60-day shot clock, tolling and the deemed
granted remedy. Eligible facilities requests are subject to administrative
review by the municipality.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities; collocation on existing structures. This
division (B) implements the 60-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law, including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 60-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling and available
remedies.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities; construction (new structures). This
division (C) implements the 90-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law, including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 90-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling and available
remedies.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
(D) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities, including, but not
limited to, application review, the 90-day shot clock and tolling.
   (E)   New macro cell towers. This division (E) implements, in part, 47
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new macro cell tower applications, including,
but not limited to, application review, the 150-day shot clock and tolling.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.15 RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of these regulations may request such; provided, that the relief,
waiver or exemption is contained in the submitted application. The burden of
proving the need for the requested relief, waiver or exemption is solely on the
applicant. No such relief, waiver or exemption shall be approved unless the
applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted the
relief, waiver or exemption will have no significant effect on the health,
safety and welfare of the municipality, its residents and other service
providers.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.16 OTHER APPROVALS.
   All other proposed installations within the right-of-way involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities) shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under this municipal code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.17 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter, federal
law and the Act, federal law or the Act, as applicable, shall control. Any
other ordinance or part thereof in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
is hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to $100 for each violation. Each day that a violation occurs or is
allowed to exist by the applicant or wireless provider constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-5-2019)
CHAPTER 152: MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Zoning and subdivision regulations adopted by reference
Municipal Limits
   
152.15   Definition of the municipal limits
   
152.16   Original plats
Subdivisions and Additions
   
152.30   Subdivisions and additions generally
   
152.31   Survey and plat
   
152.32   Surveyor’s certificate
   
152.33   Dedication
   
152.34   Streets and alleys
   
152.35   Approval of plat
   
152.36   Recording plat
   
152.37   Additions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance of the village is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 5.09, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 269, passed 5-6-2024; Ord. 275, passed 7-8-
2024)
MUNICIPAL LIMITS
§ 152.15 DEFINITION OF THE MUNICIPAL LIMITS.
   (A)   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions and parcels of ground
included within the official municipal map and plat on file at the office of
the County Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the governing
body or by law duly annexed to or made a part of this municipality, or having
been by the act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting and dedication of
their respective owners, created either as the original townsite or as
additions to the municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
   (B)   Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said municipal limits
shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Municipal Engineer after such
addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of this
municipality and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 152.16 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlets and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality, and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions and
outlets as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said
municipality and an integral part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 152.30 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS GENERALLY.
   The owner of any tract of land within the corporate limits of the
municipality, or within one mile contiguous thereto, may lay out said land into
lots, blocks, streets, avenues and alleys as a suburban development or as an
addition to the municipality upon conformance to and compliance with the
conditions herein and with the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 18-3301 and 18-3307
§ 152.31 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land within the
corporate limits or within one mile thereof, desiring to subdivide or lay out
said tract of land, shall cause the same to be accurately surveyed and an
accurate map or plat thereof made with reference to known or permanent
monuments and said map or plat shall explicitly describe the land so laid out.
   (B)   The map or plat shall designate the tract as “                
Addition to the Village of Lodgepole, Nebraska,” or “Subdivision of the Village
of Lodgepole, Nebraska,” whichever is appropriate. The lots and blocks shall be
designated by numbers, and the streets and avenues by names coinciding with the
streets and avenues of the municipality of which they form continuations.
   (C)   The plat shall show the length and depth of the lots, and the width
and course of all streets, avenues and alleys, together with an accurate plat
of all lots, blocks and streets.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002, 17-1003 and 18-3301
§ 152.32 SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   The map or plat shall be accompanied by a certificate from the surveyor
making said survey and plat that he or she accurately surveyed said tract and
that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues and alleys are accurately shown upon
said map or plat.
(Prior Code, § 11-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003 and 18-3301
§ 152.33 DEDICATION.
   (A)   Said map or plat shall have written thereon, or attached hereto, a
dedication to this municipality for the use of the public, of all streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, squares and commons, and all land set apart for public
use or dedicated to charitable, religious and educational purposes as therein
mentioned and described.
   (B)   Such dedication shall be signed by the owner of the tract of land and
shall be duly acknowledged as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003 and 18-3306
§ 152.34 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys laid out in any addition to or in any suburban
development of the municipality shall be continuous with and correspond in
direction and width to the streets and alleys of the municipality to which they
are an addition.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003 and 18-3307
§ 152.35 APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   (A)   Before any such map or plat shall have any validity, it must first be
submitted to and be approved and accepted by the governing body of the
municipality.
   (B)   Where the county has both adopted a comprehensive development plan and
is enforcing subdivision regulations, and the proposed subdivision plat both
contemplates public streets or improvements, and lies partially or totally
within the extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction being exercised by the
county, then the County Planning Commission shall be given six weeks to
officially comment on the appropriateness of the design and improvements
proposed in the plat. The review period for the Commission shall run
concurrently with subdivision review activities of the municipality after the
Commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision plat.
   (C)   The map or plat must have such acceptance and such acceptance and
approval endorsed thereon; provided, that before any such map, or plat shall be
considered, approved or accepted, the owner or proprietor shall pay, or cause
to be paid, all taxes, special taxes and special assessments due thereon, and
shall produce a certificate showing that all such taxes and assessments have
been paid or cancelled.
(Prior Code, § 11-206) (Ord. 64, passed 10-2-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002 and 19-902
§ 152.36 RECORDING PLAT.
   If a majority of all members of the governing body shall vote in favor of
such suburban development or annexation, an ordinance shall be prepared and
passed by the governing body granting such approval or declaring the annexation
of such territory to the corporate limits of this municipality, and extending
the limits thereof accordingly, whichever is appropriate. An accurate map, or
plat of such territory and said dedication as hereinbefore described, certified
by the engineer or surveyor and acknowledged and approved as provided by law in
such cases, shall at once be filed and recorded by the owner or proprietor of
such land in the office of the County Register of Deeds, together with a
certified copy of the ordinance granting approval or declaring such annexation,
under the seal of said municipality.
(Prior Code, § 11-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 152.37 ADDITIONS.
   All additions to this municipality which have heretofore been approved and
accepted, or which may hereafter be laid out in accordance with the provisions
herein and accepted and approved, shall be and become incorporated in this
municipality for all purposes whatsoever, and inhabitants of such additions
shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges and be subject to all the
laws and regulations of said municipality.
(Prior Code, § 11-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as owner or proprietor, or as the agent, attorney or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or
adjoining, and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who
shall sell, transfer, deed or convey, contract or agree to sell, transfer or
offer for sale any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of
three or more parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining, and contiguous
thereto, without having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat,
or map thereof by the governing body, and any person who shall violate, or who
shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
hereinbefore, as now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Granting to Kinder Morgan, Inc. the authority to construct, maintain and
            operate a gas transmission and distribution system within the municipality for
     10-6-  the furnishing, transmission, distribution and sale of gas, whether
153  2003   artificial, natural, mixed or otherwise for lighting, heating, domestic,
            industrial and other uses. Actual details of the agreement and the present gas
            rates, charges and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s
            office and available for public inspection during regular business hours.
 
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
TABLE II: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     11-3-  Selling and conveying unto Jeff Treblik and Phyllis Treblik all right,
250  2020   title and interest in the following real estate: Lots 4 and 5, Block
            2, Emmanuelson’s Second, Lodgepole, Cheyenne County, Nebraska.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite              Code Section
10-101—10-143           34.09
11-101                    31.02
11-101.01                 33.12
11-104                    31.01
11-105                    31.01
11-109                    31.01
11-110                    31.01
11-111                    31.01
11-112                    31.01
11-113                    31.01
11-114                    31.01
11-115                    31.01
11-116                    31.01
11-117                    31.01
11-118                    31.01
12-401—12-403           32.03
13-501                    34.23;
                          34.25
13-504                    34.22
13-505                    34.22
13-506                    34.23
13-507                    34.23
13-508                    34.24
13-509                    34.24
13-510                    34.27
13-511                    34.23
13-518—13-522           34.23;
                          34.24
13-519                    33.04
13-801                    30.02
13-903                    34.04
16-318(3)                 31.24
17-202—17-204           30.01
17-202—17-210           30.03
17-204                    31.42
17-205                    31.42
                          30.02;
17-207                    91.16;
                          91.17
                          31.20;
17-208                    32.01;
                          91.01;
                          91.02
17-209                    31.03
17-209.02                 31.03;
                          31.21
17-210                    30.25;
                          31.42
17-212                    30.05
17-213                    31.25
17-213.01                 31.26
17-214                    31.28
17-418                    152.34
17-502                    11.01
17-505                    30.20
17-511                    92.41
17-524                    92.41
                          93.03;
17-526                    93.21;
                          93.22;
                          93.26
17-531                    52.02
17-534                    52.02
17-536                    52.10
                          52.03;
                          52.05;
17-537                    52.07;
                          52.08;
                          52.11
17-540                    34.08;
                          52.19
                          52.05;
17-542                    52.16;
                          52.18;
                          52.19
17-547                    93.02;
                          93.03
17-549                    94.08
17-556                    131.02;
                          132.30
17-558                    92.40
17-559                    92.40
17-563                    132.02
17-567                    92.02;
                          92.09
17-568                    31.26
17-568.01                 31.26;
                          34.02
17-568.02                 34.02
17-601.01                 33.07
17-601.02                 33.07
17-601.03                 33.07
17-602                    33.03
                          31.01;
17-604                    31.03;
                          31.20
17-605                    31.23
17-606                    31.24
17-606(2)                 31.24
17-607                    34.07
17-608                    34.08
17-609                    34.08
17-611                    31.03
17-612                    31.03
                          30.23;
17-613                    30.25—
                          30.27;
                          34.02
                          10.15;
17-614                    30.23;
                          30.24;
                          30.28
17-615                    30.26
17-616                    30.24
17-701                    34.20
17-702                    34.06;
                          34.40
17-706                    34.25
17-708                    34.03
17-710                    34.05
17-711                    34.03
17-714                    34.04
17-715                    34.04
17-718                    32.20
                          54.03—
17-902                    54.06;
                          54.08;
                          54.09
17-902—17-904           54.01
17-906                    54.01
17-909                    54.01
17-919                    31.26
17-925.01                 53.02;
                          53.67
17-925.02                 53.65
17-948                    90.01
17-948—17-952           90.01
17-949                    90.01
17-951                    90.01
17-952                    90.01
17-953 et seq.            32.20
                          152.30;
17-1002                   152.31;
                          152.35
17-1003                   152.31—
                          152.34
18-131                    30.25
                          30.20;
18-132                    91.04;
                          94.20
18-305—18-312           31.04
18-412.01                 34.02
18-1701                   31.23
                          30.02;
                          91.16—
                          91.18;
                          91.20;
18-1720                   92.99;
                          93.99;
                          130.03;
                          132.01;
                          132.02;
                          150.99
                          92.99;
18-1722                   93.99;
                          150.99
18-1736—18-1742         71.06
18-1756                   34.02
18-1801—18-1805         34.09
18-2801 et seq.           34.20
                          31.26;
18-3301                   152.30—
                          152.32
18-3306                   152.33
18-3307                   152.30;
                          152.34
                          94.20;
19-902                    152.35—
                          152.37
19-915                    30.28
19-922                    30.20;
                          94.20
19-1101                   31.24
19-1102                   31.23
19-1103                   31.23;
                          31.24
19-1301                   34.06
19-1302                   34.06
19-1303                   34.06
19-1304                   34.06
19-1305                   52.02
19-2701                   52.15;
                          53.08
19-2901—19-2909         34.01
19-3701                   30.27
20-203                    93.28
23-122                    31.23
25-2703                   30.20
28-109                    93.28
Chapter 28, article 3     112.16
Chapter 28, article 4     112.16
28-401                    95.02;
                          95.05
28-431                    132.15
28-519                    130.01;
                          130.04
28-520                    93.28;
                          130.02
28-521                    93.28;
                          130.02
28-523                    90.02;
                          130.06
Chapter 28, article 7     112.16
Chapter 28, article 8     112.16
                          94.01;
28-908                    94.03;
                          94.05
Chapter 28, article 10    112.16
28-1004                   93.07
28-1005                   93.07
28-1008                   93.06;
                          93.28
28-1009                   93.06
28-1012                   93.06
28-1013                   93.06
Chapter 28, article 11    112.16
Chapter 28, article 12    112.16
28-1322                   131.01
29-422—29-429           93.06
                          33.01;
32-101                    33.04;
                          34.06
32-110                    33.03
32-115                    33.03
32-404                    33.01
32-405                    33.04
32-537(7)                 33.10
32-537(8)                 33.10
32-556                    33.01
32-559                    33.04
32-608                    33.06;
                          33.08
32-615                    33.08
32-616                    33.08
32-617                    33.08
32-618                    33.08
32-621                    33.08
32-625(2)                 33.08
32-627                    33.08
32-628                    33.08
32-629                    33.08
32-630                    33.08
32-710                    33.08
32-802                    33.02
32-952—32-959           33.04
32-1202                   33.04
33-139.01                 32.22
33-141                    31.24
35-102                    32.22
35-103                    32.22
35-106                    110.02
35-108                    32.22
35-506                    94.22
35-508                    94.22
35-509                    94.22
35-511                    94.22
35-530—35-536           94.22
39-311                    70.35
39-602                    71.06
39-1302                   151.02
39-6,122                  71.06
48-101 et seq.            32.22
48-115                    32.22
48-1503                   34.02
49-801(16)                10.05
49-1408                   31.04
49-1425                   31.04
49-1499.03—49-14,103    31.04
49-1499.04                31.04
49-14,102                 31.04
49-14,103.01              31.04
49-14,103.01—49-14,103.031.21
49-14,103.02              31.04
49-14,103.03              31.04
49-14,103.04              31.04
49-14,103.05              31.04
49-14,103.06              31.04
51-201                    90.15
51-202                    32.02;
                          90.15
51-205                    90.17
51-207                    90.16
51-209                    90.20
                          90.15;
51-211                    90.18;
                          90.19
51-214                    90.17
51-215                    34.06
51-216                    34.06
52-601.01—52-605        132.15
53-101 et seq.            112.01
53-103.01—53-103.51     112.01
53-118                    112.37
53-123.12                 112.17
53-124                    112.17
53-124.01                 112.17
53-124.11                 112.43
53-124.15                 112.35
53-124.17                 112.17
53-125                    112.16
53-129                    112.17
53-131                    112.17
53-132                    112.17
53-133                    112.17;
                          112.35
53-134                    112.17
53-134.03                 112.17;
                          112.37
53-134.04                 112.17
53-135                    112.18
53-135.01                 112.17;
                          112.18
53-148                    112.19
53-168.06                 112.15
53-177                    112.35
53-177.01                 112.35
53-178                    112.36
53-179                    112.41
53-180                    112.02
53-183                    112.38
53-184                    112.40
53-186                    112.03
53-186(2)                 112.03
53-186.01                 112.03
53-1,101                  112.20
53-1,102                  112.21
54-601                    93.26
54-603                    93.21
54-603(3)                 93.21
54-605                    93.24;
                          93.46
54-606                    93.26
54-607                    93.03
54-617                    93.28
54-618                    93.28
54-619                    93.28
54-620                    93.28
54-621                    93.28
54-622.01                 93.28
54-623                    93.28
55-133                    70.01
56-602                    93.26
Chapter 60                72.15
60-169                    132.15
60-301                    132.15
60-311.14                 71.06
60-376                    132.15
60-462                    70.05
60-606—60-676           70.01
60-607                    70.01
60-610                    70.01
60-613                    70.01
60-624                    70.01
60-631                    70.01
60-638                    70.01
60-646                    70.01
60-654                    70.01
60-656                    70.01
60-658.01                 70.01
60-661                    70.01
60-669                    70.01
60-670                    70.01
60-671                    70.01
60-672                    70.01
60-676                    70.01
                          70.38;
60-680                    71.01;
                          71.07
60-681                    70.02
60-683                    70.05
60-1901                   132.15
60-1902                   132.15
60-1903                   132.15
60-1903.01                132.15
60-1903.02                132.15
60-1904                   132.15
60-1905                   132.15
60-1906                   132.15
60-1907                   132.15
60-1908                   132.15
60-1909                   132.15
60-2410                   132.15
60-3,130 et seq.          132.16
60-6,110                  70.06
60-6,118                  70.01
60-6,119                  70.07
60-6,127                  70.37
60-6,130                  70.36
60-6,148                  70.03
60-6,166                  94.04
60-6,167                  71.04
60-6,168                  71.05
60-6,184                  94.06
60-6,185                  70.20
60-6,186                  70.21
60-6,187                  70.21
60-6,188                  70.21
60-6,211.08               112.03
60-6,267                  70.09
60-6,305                  70.21
60-6,308                  70.40
60-6,313                  70.21
60-6,315                  72.01
60-6,316                  72.02
60-6,317                  72.01
60-6,318                  72.01
70-624.04                 31.04
70-655                    151.03
70-1602                   52.18;
                          54.08
70-2103                   130.02
71-4412                   93.21
71-4603                   132.15
73-101 et seq.            34.02
76-2301—76-2332         151.08
77-2201                   31.24
77-2201—77-2215         31.24
77-2202                   31.24
77-2209                   31.24
77-2210                   31.24
77-2212                   31.24
77-2341                   34.08
77-2362                   34.07
77-2363                   34.07
77-2364                   34.07
77-2365.01                34.07
77-2366                   34.07
77-2386                   34.07
77-3442                   90.01
77-3444                   33.04
81-145—81-162           34.02
81-201                    93.06
81-501.01—81-531        32.26
81-502                    94.20
81-506                    32.28
81-512                    32.26
81-2005                   70.41
81-15,117 et seq.         32.26
84-712                    151.04
84-712—84-712.09        31.23;
                          31.24
84-712(2)                 31.23
84-1201 et seq.           31.23
84-1408                   31.41
84-1409                   31.40
84-1410                   31.45
                          31.41;
84-1411                   31.43;
                          31.44
84-1411(7)                31.41
84-1412                   31.46
84-1413                   31.48;
                          31.49
86-704                    151.01
86-1201 et seq.           151.01
86-1201—86-1244         151.02
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1-104      30.05
1-202      31.21
1-203      31.22
1-211      31.27
1-215      31.28
1-401      11.01
1-510      31.42
1-709      33.11
1-710      33.12
1-713      33.05
1-714      33.05
1-715      33.10
1-716      33.09
1-717      33.13
1-801      34.20
1-810      34.01
1-903      31.05
1-1001     10.99
2-201      32.02
2-203      32.03
2-204      32.04
2-205      32.05
2-301      32.99
3-101      52.02
3-102      52.01
3-103      52.03
3-104      52.15
3-105      52.04
3-106      52.05
3-107      52.05
3-108      52.16
3-109      52.19
3-110      52.19
3-111      52.18
3-112      52.06
3-113      52.07
3-114      52.08
3-115      52.09
3-116      52.10
3-117      52.11
3-118      52.12
3-119      52.13
3-120      52.14
           52.30—
3-121      52.33;
           52.99
3-122      52.17
3-123      52.60
3-124      52.61
3-125      52.62
3-126      52.63
3-127      52.99
3-128      52.45—
           52.47
3-201      53.02
3-202      53.01
3-203      53.03
3-204      53.08
3-205      53.04
3-206      53.06
3-207      53.07
3-208      53.05
3-209      53.20
3-210      53.21
3-211      53.22
3-212      53.65
3-213      53.66
3-214      53.67
3-215      53.68
3-217      53.35
3-218      53.36
3-219      53.50
3-220      53.51
3-306      32.25
3-307      32.27
3-401      32.40
3-601      90.15
3-602      90.16
3-603      90.17
3-604      90.18
3-605      90.19
3-606      90.20
3-701      54.01
3-702      54.02
3-703      54.03
3-704      54.04
3-705      54.05
3-706      54.06
3-708      54.07
3-709      54.08
3-710      54.09
3-711      54.10
3-712      54.11
3-713      54.12
3-714      54.13
3-715      54.14
3-801      50.02
3-802      50.03
3-901      50.01
3-1001     50.99
4-103      91.04
4-201      51.01
4-202      51.01
4-203      51.01
4-204      51.02
4-205      51.03
4-206      51.04
4-302      91.16
4-303      91.17
4-304      91.18
4-305      91.19
4-401      91.99
4-402      91.20
5-102      70.02
5-103      70.08
5-104      70.08
5-107      70.04
5-201      70.35
5-203      70.37
5-204      70.38
5-207      70.39
5-208      70.38
5-209      70.40
5-210      70.41
5-213      70.09
5-301      72.01
5-302      72.02
5-404      Chapter 73, Schedule I
5-407      71.07
5-408      71.08
5-409      71.06
5-501      70.99
6-107      93.20
6-108      93.46
6-113      93.29
6-114      93.23
6-117      93.27
6-118      93.30
6-205      93.02
6-206      93.02
6-210      93.07
6-211      93.07
6-212      93.07
6-303      130.04
6-304      130.05
6-305      130.06
6-311      130.03;
           130.99
6-313      132.02
6-315      132.16;
           132.99
6-316      131.02
6-318      131.15
6-319      131.16;
           131.99
6-320      131.17
6-321      131.18
6-322      131.19
6-323      131.20
6-401      93.99
6-402      93.99
7-102      94.01
7-103      94.02
7-104      94.03
7-105      94.04
7-106      94.05
7-107      94.06
7-108      94.07
7-201      94.20
7-202      94.21
7-203      94.22
7-301      94.08
7-401      94.35
7-402      94.36
7-403      94.37
7-501      94.99
8-104      92.09
8-107      92.10
8-308      92.41
8-501      92.99
8-502      92.99
9-401      150.99
9-402      150.99
10-107.5   112.43
10-114     112.38
10-115     112.39
10-117     112.41
10-119     112.42
10-301     110.01
10-302     110.02
10-401     95.01
10-402     95.02
10-403     95.03
10-404     95.04
10-405     95.05
10-406     95.06
10-407     95.07
10-408     95.08
10-409     95.09
10-601     112.99
11-101     152.15
11-102     152.16
11-201     152.30
11-202     152.31
11-203     152.32
11-204     152.33
11-205     152.34
11-206     152.35
11-207     152.36
11-208     152.37
11-301     152.99
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
58       11-7-1977   33.11
62       11-7-1977   34.01
67       11-7-1977   91.17
68       11-7-1977   71.06
70       11-7-1977   130.04
72       11-7-1977   132.16;
                     132.99
74       11-7-1977   112.41
63       12-5-1977   52.19
65       12-5-1977   54.06
59       10-2-1978   32.04
61       10-2-1978   112.41
63       10-2-1978   112.38
64       10-2-1978   152.35
65       10-2-1978   94.22
100      12-4-1989   71.06
102      12-3-1990   31.21
103      12-3-1990   30.05
104      12-3-1990   70.09
106      12-3-1990   93.07
108      7-7-1992    95.01—
                     95.09
111      11-2-1992   52.30;
                     52.99
112      11-2-1992   52.17
113      4-5-1993    54.08
114      4-5-1993    132.16;
                     132.99
119      1-9-1995    112.41
123      4-3-1995    52.18
124-A    4-3-1995    52.19
124-B    8-14-1995   132.02
125      11-6-1995   33.13
126      11-6-1995   34.20
127      4-1-1996    32.05
133      4-6-1998    53.68
137      11-2-1998   52.19
138      6-4-1999    112.41
                     91.16;
142      5-7-2001    91.17;
                     91.19;
                     91.20
                     52.60—
148      1-6-2003    52.63;
                     52.99
149      2-3-2003    53.68
150      3-3-2003    54.06
153      10-6-2003   TSO Table I
154      1-5-2004    52.30;
                     52.99
157      3-7-2005    93.27
161      5-1-2006    52.45—
                     52.47
177      1-4-2010    50.02;
                     50.03
                     52.60—
191      11-7-2011   52.63;
                     52.99
                     131.15—
210      12-1-2014   131.20;
                     131.99
213      6-1-2015    51.04
220      7-11-2016   54.03
218      8-1-2016    50.01
10-107.5 3-4-2019    112.43
236      6-3-2019    31.42
                     151.01—
241      11-5-2019   151.17;
                     151.99
5.09     11-3-2020   152.01
250      11-3-2020   TSO Table II
254      8-3-2021    72.15—
                     72.18
                     150.02;
259      6-7-2022    150.16—
                     150.19;
                     150.99
261      8-2-2022    32.03
264      8-2-2022    31.29
265      9-6-2022    150.15
266      11-1-2022   93.20;
                     93.27
267      11-7-2023   52.19
268      11-7-2023   53.68
271      4-2-2024    31.42
272      4-2-2024    53.68
269      5-6-2024    152.01
                     30.01;
                     30.03;
270      5-6-2024    32.01;
                     32.03—
                     32.05
273      6-4-2024    52.18;
                     54.08
                     91.35—
274      6-4-2024    91.44;
                     91.99
275      7-8-2024    152.01
 
 
