CITY OF LOUP CITY, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 938, passed 10-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 722
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF LOUP CITY, NEBRASKA;
REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES OR PARTS OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT HEREWITH; AND TO
PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT
AND ORDERING THE PUBLICATIONS OF SAID ORDINANCE IN PAMPHLET FORM, REPEALING ANY
ORDINANCES OR OTHER PROVISIONS IN CONFLICT HEREWITH.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOUP CITY,
NEBRASKA.
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Loup City, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the Code of Ordinances of
Loup City, Nebraska, consisting of the following Titles:
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30. Body of Government; Elected Officials
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   52. Water Department
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   72. Recreational Vehicles
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90. Animals
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   111. Alcoholic Beverages
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150. Building and Zoning Regulations
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to
such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alley, or other
public places.
      2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use.
      4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      7.   Appropriating money.
      8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5. Any other ordinance or section passed and approved prior to the
passage, approval, and publication of this ordinance and in conflict herewith,
is hereby repealed.
   Section 6. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and
after its passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of May, 2014.
                                  /s/
                                 MAYOR
ATTEST:
Roberta E. Kowalski /s/
Roberta E. Kowalski
CITY CLERK
 
The foregoing Ordinance was presented and after discussion it was moved by
Walrath and seconded by Bandur that said Ordinance No. 722 be adopted, and upon
roll call vote, the City Council voted as follows:
   AYES: Bandur, Walrath, Kuszak, Baillie
   NO'S: None
   ABSENT: None
   ABSTAIN: None
   The Mayor then declared said motion duly carried and said Ordinance be
adopted this 6th day of May, 2014.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
         
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Loup City,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS MUNICIPAL CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This
city code of Loup City, Nebraska as modified by amendment, revision, and
adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Sherman County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Chief Administrative Official of the municipality, whenever it
appears in the code.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPAL POLICE. Any police officer of the city whenever it appears in
the code.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WHOLESALE DEALER or SELLER OF THE PRODUCT AT WHOLESALE. Includes
manufacturers of any product who sell that product to other persons for the
purpose of future resale to consumers.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. 350, passed 4-24-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 49-801(16)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Cross-reference:
   Scope of amending ordinance, amendments and revisions, see §
30.69
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and all amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(Neb. RS 18-132)
   (C)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or any person’s agent or servant who violates any of
the provisions of this city code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
90.002,
90.009,
90.024,
90.029,
90.032,
90.037, or
90.065 shall be waiverable and carry the penalty listed below, unless otherwise
provided herein:
         (a)   First offense: $30;
         (b)   Second offense: $60;
         (c)   Third offense: $100;
         (d)   Fourth offense: $200; and
         (e)   Fifth and subsequent offenses: $250.
      (3)   Any violation of §
51.18 shall be waiverable and carry the penalty listed below, unless otherwise
specifically provided herein or if restitution is required for clean-up of the
illegally dumped items:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $200;
         (c)   Third offense: $300;
         (d)   Fourth offense: $400; and
         (e)   Fifth and subsequent offenses: $500.
      (4)   Any violation of this city code shall be waiverable and carry the
penalty listed below, unless otherwise specifically provided herein:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense: $100;
         (c)   Third offense: $150;
         (d)   Fourth offense: $200; and
         (e)   Fifth and subsequent offenses: $250.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the same in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. 787, passed 5-3-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official Corporate Seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the City Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "Seal, City of
Loup City, Nebraska." The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the official
seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other official
papers issued by order of the Governing Body and countersigned by the City
Clerk.
(1990 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED OFFICIALS
         
31.   ELECTIONS
         
32.   OFFICIALS
         
33.   FINANCES AND TAXATION; FUNDS
         
34.   DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND BOARDS
         
35.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
Council
   
30.01   Mayor; powers, duties and selection
   
30.02   City Council; Acting President
   
30.03   City Council; selection and duties
   
30.04   Organization of City Council
Elected Officials; Procedures
   
30.15   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.16   Mayor; vacancy
   
30.17   Restrictions on other employment or elective office
Meetings
   
30.30   Meetings defined
   
30.31   Public body defined
   
30.32   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
30.33   Closed sessions
   
30.34   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
30.35   [Reserved]
   
30.36   Emergency meetings
   
30.37   [Reserved]
   
30.38   [Reserved]
   
30.39   Minutes
   
30.40   Votes
   
30.41   Notice to news media
   
30.42   Public participation
   
30.43   Order of business
   
30.44   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.45   Change in office
   
30.46   Organizational meeting
Ordinances
   
30.60   Grant of power
   
30.61   Introduction
   
30.62   Resolutions and motions
   
30.63   Style
   
30.64   Title
   
30.65   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.66   Publication or posting
   
30.67   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.68   Emergency ordinances
   
30.69   Amendments and revisions
COUNCIL
§ 30.01 Mayor; powers, duties and selection
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council if:
         (a)   For the purposes of such a vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a
member of the City Council.
         (b)   The Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
         (c)   Majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all the
elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of one
or more City Council members.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor's veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any
claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this section,
the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may
veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill, and
approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by
the Council over the veto as in other cases.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerks minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
   (J)   He or she shall be elected at the municipal election, and shall serve
a four-year term of office. Any candidate for Mayor must be a resident and a
qualified elector of the city.
(1990 Code, §1-101) (Ord. 748, passed 4-7-2015, Ord. 816, passed 1-4-2018; Ord.
925, passed 1-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-114, 17-117
§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(1990 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 30.03 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(1990 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104
§ 30.04 ORGANIZATION OF CITY COUNCIL.
   City Councilmembers of this municipality shall take office and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk shall
report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-elect who have
qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon
the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
(1990 Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
ELECTED OFFICIALS; PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D), vacancies
in municipal elected offices shall be filled by the Governing Body for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the
governing body at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of
the minutes of that meeting. The Governing Body shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality or by posting in three public places in the
municipality the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Governing Body or
place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or
special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent, or within four
weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
Governing Body shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of
the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor
shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Governing Body shall continue to vote
upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All members
of the Governing Body present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee,
Any member of the governing body who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on
the Governing Body shall have the same rights, including voting, as if that
person were elected.
   (C)   The Mayor and Governing Body may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a
city elected office as provided in division (B), call a special election to
fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Governing Body, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special municipal
election to fill those vacancies.
(1990 Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 782, passed 2-4-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560, 32-561, and 32-569
§ 30.16 MAYOR; VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his or
her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled or the disability is removed, or in
case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   (B)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but the office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the
Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled.
   (C)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office
of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on
the Council which shall be filled as provided in §
30.15.
(1990 Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 30.17 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other elective or
appointive office or employment with the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTIVE OFFICE.  Any office which has candidates nominated or elected at
the time of a statewide primary election, any office which has candidates
nominated at the time of a statewide primary election and elected at the time
of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates elected at the
time of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates nominated
or elected at a city or village election, and any office created by an act of
the Legislature which has candidates elected at an election and includes an
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body created by an act of the Legislature.
      HIGH ELECTIVE OFFICE. A member of the Legislature, an elective office
described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or 10, of
the Constitution of Nebraska, or a county, city, or school district elective
office.
   (C)   (1)   No candidate for member of the Legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or 10, of
the Constitution of Nebraska shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to
petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political
party or by party convention, caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be
a declared write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at
the same election except for the position of delegate to a county, state, or
national political party convention.
      (2)   No candidate for any other high elective office shall be eligible
to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a
nomination by a political party or by party convention, caucus, or committee to
fill a vacancy, or to be declared a write-in candidate for more than one high
elective office to be filled at the same election.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E) or (G) of this section, no person
shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective
office for the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds
another elective office.
   (E)   No person serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or
10, of the Constitution of Nebraska shall simultaneously serve in any other
elective office, except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another
elective office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body.
   (F)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the Legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII,
section 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska assumes another elective
office, except an elective office filled at an election held in conjunction
with the annual meeting of a public body, the office first held by the
incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (G)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (H)   Notwithstanding divisions (E) through (G) of this section, any person
holding more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997 shall be
entitled to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was elected or
appointed.
(1990 Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 474, passed 8-4-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604
MEETINGS
§ 30.30 MEETINGS DEFINED.
   MEETINGS, as used in this subchapter, shall mean all regular, special, or
called meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of
briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the
taking of any action.
(1990 Code, § 1-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(2)
§ 30.31 PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC BODY, as used in this subchapter, shall mean:
      (1)   The Governing Body of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, certificate of need appeal panels, or any other bodies, now or
hereafter created by Constitution, statute, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
the subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(1990 Code, § 1-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1)
§ 30.32 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. Notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to
the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Governing Body scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
city. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such meeting.
(1990 Code, § 1-503) (Ord. 864, passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 30.33 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if the individual has not requested a
public meeting.
      (1)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if the person has not
requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance
given by members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in
closed sessions authorized under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
either the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled
only by a majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and
its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to chance meetings,
or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a
public body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally
convened and there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over
which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory
power.
(1990 Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 425, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.34 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the City Hall.
Regular meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month at the hour
of 7:00 p.m. If the first Tuesday of the month falls on the first day of the
month or on a holiday, then the regular City Council meeting shall be held on
the second Tuesday of the month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. When a
City Council consists of four members as established by ordinance or home rule
charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for purposes of
establishing a quorum when the Mayor's presence is necessary to establish the
quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal of the City Clerk.
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
(1990 Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 447, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 602, passed 12-6-2005;
Ord. 694, passed 1-8-2013; Ord. 853, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 859, passed 1-5-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 30.35 [RESERVED].
§ 30.36 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in the meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.41 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal
action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later
than the end of the next regular business day.
(1990 Code, § 1-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.37 [RESERVED].
§ 30.38 [RESERVED].
§ 30.39 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
(1990 Code, § 1-506)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413
§ 30.40 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Governing Body to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(1990 Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-616, 84-1413
§ 30.41 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, Secretary, or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(1990 Code, § 1-508)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.42 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting or a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1410, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic
reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(1990 Code, § 1-509) (Ord. 885, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 18-2438
§ 30.43 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the City Clerk, the Mayor, and such other municipal officials
that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting place,
and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration, and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
(1990 Code, § 1-510)
§ 30.44 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body
and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing
Body. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave
the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from
his or her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer and
while speaking shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two or
more persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first.
All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon,
if requested by the City Clerk, or any member of the Governing Body. Every
member of the Governing Body who is present when a question is voted upon,
shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the Governing Body
present.
   (B)   No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it
shall be stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a
motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the
Governing Body making the motion, or resolution shall be entered also. After
each vote, the "Yeas" and "Nays" shall be taken, and entered in the minutes
upon the request of any member of the Governing Body. Before the vote is
actually taken, any resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn
from consideration by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the member of the
Governing Body seconding the resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times, or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest time.
   (C)   A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question.
   (D)   When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of the motions shall be decided without debate.
   (E)   Any of the rules of the Governing Body for meetings may be suspended
by a two-thirds vote of the members present.
   (F)   In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's
Rules of Order is the authority by which the Governing Body shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
(1990 Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.45 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to that time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same.
(1990 Code, § 1-512)
§ 30.46 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of
meeting in the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in
which a municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns
and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for
the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall
then nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall
then proceed with the regular order of business.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Council, or
his or her successor in office, and of each officer elected to any office, to
qualify prior to the first regular meeting in December following his or her
election. All appointive officers shall qualify within two weeks following
their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not required to give
bond shall consist in his or her subscribing and taking an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of Nebraska,
the laws of the municipality, and to perform faithfully and impartially the
duties of his or her office, which oath to be filed in the office of the City
Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the required bond
in the office of the City Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the
faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed
thereon.
(1990 Code, § 1-513)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.60 GRANT OF POWER.
   The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security.
(1990 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 30.61 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may, in the
presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council, read
aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and file a copy of the
same with the City Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present his or
her proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance
of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(1990 Code, § 1-602)
§ 30.62 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by the resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(1990 Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.63 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be:
      "Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Loup City,
Nebraska:"
(1990 Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.64 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(1990 Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.65 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. For the purposes of
such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote on any such matter if:
         (a)   The Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
         (b)   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for (i) any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
City Council election districts or wards; or (ii) as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(1990 Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 426, passed 3-7-1995; Ord. 888, passed 12-7-2021;
Ord. 926, passed 1-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 30.66 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, or, if no
paper is published in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in
eac of three public places in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet, or electronic form.
(1990 Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 812, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 886, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.67 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the municipality from
the City Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when,
and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and where the
same was posted.
(1990 Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.68 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, the ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public places in the
municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourths vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the City Clerk's
minutes.
(1990 Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.69 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(1990 Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
Cross-reference:
   Amendments generally, see §
10.15
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Generally
   
31.02   Primary election, number of candidates filing
   
31.03   Tie votes
   
31.04   General election, preparation of ballot
   
31.05   Joint, general election
   
31.06   Joint, general election, notice
   
31.07   Special elections
   
31.08   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer; filing fee
   
31.09   Petition candidates
   
31.10   Officials
   
31.11   Election officials' oath
   
31.12   Voter qualifications
   
31.13   At large
   
31.14   Councilmembers
   
31.15   Ballots
   
31.16   Certificate of nomination or election
   
31.17   Inability to assume office
   
31.18   Recall procedure
   
31.19   Term of office
   
31.20   Candidate qualifications
   
31.21   Exit polls; poll watchers
§ 31.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 32. The elections shall be held in
conjunction with the state primary and general election. Prior to February 1 of
the year in which the first such joint election takes place, the Governing Body
shall receive the consent in writing of the County Board to so hold the
election and the authorization shall be prescribed according to state law. The
County Clerk shall have charge of the election and shall have the authority to
deputize the City Clerk for municipal election purposes. Charges shall be paid
to the County Clerk in accordance with Neb. RS Ch. 32.
   (B)   Commencing with the statewide primary election in 1976, and every two
years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the statewide
primary election and elected at the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 32-4,147) (1990 Code, § 1-701)
§ 31.02 PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required.
(1990 Code, § 1-702)
§ 31.03 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify the candidates to appear at his
or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(1990 Code, § 1-703)
§ 31.04 GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   (A)   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or
write-in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the
general election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes
received at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of
the candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(1990 Code, § 1-704)
§ 31.05 JOINT, GENERAL ELECTION.
   The general municipal election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 32. The Governing Body has determined, by
ordinance duly adopted, to hold the municipal election in conjunction with the
statewide primary election, held on the first Tuesday after the second Monday
in May of each even-numbered year. Prior to February 1 of the year in which the
first such joint election takes place, the Governing Body shall receive the
consent in writing of the County Board to so hold the election, and the
authorization shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk
shall have charge of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the
City Clerk for municipal election purposes.
(1990 Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-505
§ 31.06 JOINT, GENERAL ELECTION, NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than 40 days prior to the primary or general
election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all municipal
elections which are held in conjunction with the county.
(1990 Code, § 1-706)
§ 31.07 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted to
the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified by
the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under this section
shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
   (B)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
   (C)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relation to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commission or County Clerk shall certify the election result to the
Governing Body. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the Governing Body.
   (D)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(1990 Code, § 1-707) (Ord. 863, passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405, 32-559
§ 31.08 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective office,
the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between January
5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent who
resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term shall
file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of the general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) or (G) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline the City
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (F) or (G) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year proceeding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (E)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (F)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (G)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (H)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(1990 Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 749, passed 4-7-2015; Ord. 878, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-606 through 32-608
§ 31.09 PETITION CANDIDATES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS. 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other in a county, at least 20% of the total number
of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United States at
the immediately preceding general election within the political subdivision,
not to exceed 2,000.
(1990 Code, § 1-709) (Ord. 475, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 746, passed 4-7-2015;
Ord. 799, passed 1-5-2017; Ord. 848, passed 1-7-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618
§ 31.10 OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall, at least 15 days prior to the state primary
elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three
judges and two clerks of election in each election unit in the municipality, to
be known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of
good character, approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write, and
speak the English language, reside in the election precinct in which he or she
is to serve, be entitled to vote in his or her election unit, and hold office
for a term of two years, or until judges and clerks of election are appointed
for the next state primary election.
(1990 Code, § 1-710)
§ 31.11 ELECTION OFFICIALS' OATH.
   Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election
shall severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by
state law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall
be lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and
the clerks of election. The person administering the oath shall cause an entry
to be made thereof and affixed to each poll book.
(1990 Code, § 1-711)
§ 31.12 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless the person shall be a
resident of the state and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county.
(1990 Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602, 32-102
§ 31.13 AT LARGE.
   All elections in the City of Loup City, Nebraska shall be elections held at
large.
(1990 Code, § 1-713)
§ 31.14 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   Councilmembers shall be elected from the municipality at large unless the
residents of the municipality have voted to elect their Councilmembers by
wards. Councilmembers shall serve for a term of four years and shall be a
resident and qualified elector. If the election of Councilmembers takes place
by wards, each nominee for Councilmember shall be a resident and qualified
elector of the ward for which he or she is a candidate, and only residents of
that ward may sign the candidate's nomination petitions.
(1990 Code, § 1-714)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
§ 31.15 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election, and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 1-715)
§ 31.16 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk, or City Clerk shall, within
40 days after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a certificate of
nomination or a certificate of election to each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote for each municipal office.
No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a candidate of a
political party unless the person has received a number of votes at least equal
to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary election by registered voters
affiliated with that political party in the district which the office for which
he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the City Clerk shall be in the
form as nearly as possible prescribed by Neb. RS 32-1033 and shall be signed by
the Mayor under the seal of the municipality, and countersigned by the Clerk.
(1990 Code, § 1-716) (Ord. 521, passed 5-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558, 32-1033
§ 31.17 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased, or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the electorate
had reasonable notice of the disability at the time of the election, the
candidate in the election who received the next highest number of votes shall
be declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for that office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected, or reasonable notice of the winner's ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in the office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(1990 Code, § 1-717)
§ 31.18 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the Governing Body and any other
elected official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to
this section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at-large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general elections.
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the Governing Body, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote case for the person receiving the most votes for
that office in the last general election, except that for City Council office
for which more than one candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 35% of the number of votes cast
for the person who received the most votes for such office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the Council member by any method
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with
reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by
leaving a copy of the filing form at the Council member's usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Council member's last-
known address. If the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense
statement in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the
petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk
within 20 days after the Council member receives the copy of the filing form.
The filing clerk shall prepare the petition papers within five business days
after receipt of the defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators
shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the
filing clerk that the petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall
notify the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures
must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 34-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the Governing Body
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last known address.
      (2)   The Governing Body shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section,
order an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date
that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city with 90 days after such
notification, the Governing Body shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   If the Governing Body fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the District Court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 34-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Governing Body at one time due to the recall of such members, a
special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as
possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the Governing Body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(1990 Code, § 1-718) (Ord. 512, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 783, passed 2-4-2016;
Ord. 847, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 857, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 25-505.01, 32-562, 32-567 through
32-570, 32-574, 32-629, 32-630, 32-1301 through 32-1309
§ 31.19 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the municipality shall serve a term of four years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(1990 Code, § 1-719)
§ 31.20 CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding that office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the city. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies.
(1990 Code, § 1-720)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 31.21 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in preparation or
casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker from performing
the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of the election
shall post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from
the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box,
and any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher form being in the polling place.
(1990 Code, § 1-721) (Ord. 866, passed 2-2-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1525
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Bonds; form
   
32.02   Oath of office; municipal officials
Appointed Officials
   
32.15   General authority
   
32.16   Merger of offices
   
32.17   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
32.18   City Clerk
   
32.19   Municipal Treasurer
   
32.20   City Attorney
   
32.21   [Reserved]
   
32.22   Municipal Police Chief
   
32.23   Municipal police officer
   
32.24   Municipal Fire Chief
   
32.25   Special Engineer
   
32.26   Public Works Commissioner/Utility Superintendent
   
32.27   Municipal Water Commissioner
   
32.28   Municipal Sewer Commissioner
   
32.29   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
32.30   Animal Control Officer
Compensation
   
32.40   Municipal officials
   
32.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
32.42   Salaries of officials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and
several, and shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the
Governing Body may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond
shall not fall below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of
Nebraska, for each particular official. All official bonds of the municipal
officials shall be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at
least two sufficient sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the
official as principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company;
provided no municipal official, while still in his or her official term of
office, shall be accepted as surety on any other official's bond, contractor's
bond, license bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that
are legally authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be
eligible for suretyship on the bond of an official of the municipality. All
these bonds shall obligate the principal, and sureties for the faithful
discharge of all duties required by law of the principal, and shall inure to
the benefit of the municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach
of the conditions of the bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete
until the approval of the Governing Body, and all sureties are endorsed in
writing on the instrument by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval
of the Governing Body.
   (B)   The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out
of the General Fund, or other proper municipal fund, upon a resolution to that
effect by the Governing Body at the beginning of any municipal year.
   (C)   All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with
the City Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of
a fee which shall be set by resolution of the Governing Body. In the event that
the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the municipality, in the
opinion of the Governing Body, become insufficient, the Governing Body may, by
resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new bond
or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Governing Body then the office shall, by such
failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the
Governing Body to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
Any official who is reelected to office shall be required to file a new bond
after each election.
(1990 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604 
§ 32.02 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      "I ______________________________________ do solemnly swear that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and
without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
_________________________________, according to law, and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and
that during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God."
(Neb. RS 11-101) (1990 Code, § 1-302)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.15 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such other officials as may be
necessary, and may establish a police reserve force as provided by law. All
appointed officials shall be subject to removal at any time by the Mayor.
(1990 Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1438 through 81-1446
§ 32.16 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The Governing Body of the municipality may, in its discretion, by
ordinance combine, and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment,
except the Mayor or a City Councilmember with any other elective, or appointive
office, so that one or more of such offices may be held by the officer or
employee at the same time. Any offices so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(1990 Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 32.17 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of City Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
Governing Body by §
33.16.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall be set each
December.
(1990 Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 420, passed 10-4-1994)
§ 32.18 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the governing body. After
the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the governing body to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
32.19.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the governing body within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation of
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further, legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the governing body shall order public work to be done at the
expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filing made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included
in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and
other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund form which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolution under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the governing body.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the
governing body or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, the Clerk shall then prepare
transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
(1990 Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 856, passed 1-5-2020; Ord. 879, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 18-1701, 19-1102, 19-1103
§ 32.19 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end of
every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Governing Body, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, and which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the Governing Body, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and the register, and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct for his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 855, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609, 19-1101,
19-1103, 77-2201 through 77-2215, 84-712
§ 32.20 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he or she
shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the municipality.
When requested by the Governing Body, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Governing Body, and shall advise any municipal official in all matters of law
in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He or she shall
draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be required
in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she shall
examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be
required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such
instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal and
proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing
Body. Without direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records, and advise and assist the City
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be valid, and
subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and approval are concerned.
The Governing Body shall have the right to compensate the City Attorney for
legal services on such terms as the Governing Body and the City Attorney may
agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of
the funds of the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 32.21 [RESERVED].
§ 32.22 MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The City of Loup City is currently under contract with the County of
Sherman, Nebraska, to provide municipal law enforcement services. Therefore,
the Municipal Police Chief shall be the Sherman County Sheriff and said
individual shall direct the police work of the municipality and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act as Health
Inspector except in the event the municipality appoints another person. He or
she shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of
municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports required by the
municipal ordinances, or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
   Should the contract with Sherman County ever terminate and the City of Loup
reinstate its own law enforcement agency, it shall amend this ordinance and put
into place such necessary rules and regulations are then required by Nebraska
state statute.
(1990 Code, § 1-210) (Ord. 875, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121, 17-213
§ 32.23 MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICER.
   The city is currently under contract with the County of Sherman, Nebraska,
to provide municipal law enforcement services. All municipal police officer
rules and regulations shall be set by the Sherman County Sheriff as his or her
deputies shall serve as municipal police officers. Should that contract ever
terminate and the city reinstate its own law enforcement agency, it shall amend
this ordinance and put into place such necessary rules and regulations are then
required by Nebraska state statute.
(1990 Code §§ 1-201 and 1-211) (Ord. 875, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121, 17-213
§ 32.24 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of each
year, cause the Secretary to file with the City Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire, and for a period of
36 hours thereafter, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for
hindering the Department's efforts, conducting himself or herself in a noisy
and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant in
charge of operations at a fire, may command the services of any person present
at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection of
property. Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose
of examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers.
(1990 Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108,
81-506, 81-512
§ 32.25 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to make any particular
estimate, survey, or other work. The Special Engineer shall make a record of
the minutes of his or her surveys and all other work done for the municipality.
He or she shall, when directed by the Governing Body, accurately make all
plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the
Governing Body. He or she shall, upon request of the Governing Body, make
estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by
contract with the municipality, and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Governing Body may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the municipality, and shall be turned over to his
or her successor.
(1990 Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919
§ 32.26 PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER/UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall nominate and, by and with the advice and consent
of the City Council, shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as
the Public Works Commissioner of the City and whose term of office shall be for
one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
Annually at the first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the
Public Works Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Public Works Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient
cause, be removed by a b vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Public Works Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office,
or removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section
for the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Public Works Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon
the discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and the bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Public Works Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the
Mayor and City Council, shall have the general management and control of the
system of waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of
waterworks or water supply in the city and have the general management and
control of the sewer system of the city.
      (5)   Loup City is a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the
city has other public utilities than its waterworks system. The Mayor and
Council shall by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works
Commissioner with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but
also other public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A)
applying to the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works
Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   The Public Works Commissioner shall collect all money received
by the city on account of its system or waterworks and sewer system and shall
faithfully account for and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his
or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City
Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system and the sewer
system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery, and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements,
repairs, or extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of
the Public Works Commissioner.
      (3)   The Public Works Commissioner shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Public Works Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the
Council may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Mayor and Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem
necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Pubic Works Commissioner during the term for which he or she
was elected.
      (6)   All references in this section or Nebraska statutes or related to
Water Commissioner or Sewer Commissioner shall apply to Public Works
Commissioner.
(Ord. 620, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 32.27 MUNICIPAL WATER COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have general supervision and control
over the Municipal Water System, and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. Included in the water system shall
be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Water Commissioner
shall be subject to the general directives and control of the Governing Body.
The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have the general control and supervisory
authority over all employees of the Water System which the Governing Body may
from time to time hire to operate and maintain the system. Unless some other
official is specifically designated, he or she shall collect all money received
by the municipality on account of the system of waterworks, and shall
faithfully account for and pay over to the Municipal Treasurer all such money
collected in the name of the municipality, and receive a receipt from the
Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or her faithful
discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the City Clerk,
and the second copy shall be kept by the Commissioner. He or she shall make a
detailed report to the Governing Body, at least once every six months, of the
condition of the water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and
machinery and such improvements, repairs, and extensions thereof as he or she
may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures
on account thereof for the preceding six months. No money shall be expended for
improvements, repairs, or extensions of the waterworks system except upon the
recommendation of the Commissioner. The Water Commissioner, who may be removed
at any time by the Mayor, a two-thirds vote of the Governing Body, shall
provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties,
which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
Governing Body and on file in the office of the City Clerk. The Water
Commissioner shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the
Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 1-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 17-543
§ 32.28 MUNICIPAL SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   The Sewer Commissioner shall have the immediate control and supervision over
all the employees and property that make up the municipal sewer system, subject
to the general control and directives of the Governing Body. The Sewer
Commissioner shall also act as the landfill supervisor with immediate control
and supervision over all the employees and property that make up the municipal
landfill. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a detailed report to
the Governing Body on the condition of the sewer system and the landfill, and
shall direct their attention to the improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions, and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as
the Governing Body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall issue permits
for all connections to the municipal sewer system, and inspect and supervise
all repairs made to the system.
(1990 Code, § 1-215)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 32.29 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the Governing Body, have general charge, direction, and control
of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the Governing Body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the Governing Body, make a detailed report to the
Governing Body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys,
and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct their attention to the
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue
the permits, and assume such other duties as the Governing Body may direct.
(1990 Code, § 1-216)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-119, 17-214
§ 32.30 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Governing Body may employ an Animal Control Officer, under general
supervision, to provide for the enforcement of specific infractions of
municipal ordinances. The Animal Control Officer shall be primarily responsible
for animal complaints, reports and documents regarding the capturing and
impounding of stray animals and such other duties as prescribed by his or her
superiors.
(Ord. 517, passed 5-2-2000)
COMPENSATION
§ 32.40 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the Governing Body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
(1990 Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-209.02, 17-612
§ 32.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock with $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for reimbursement of
any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor, or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record of the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
member of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately form other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(1990 Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 880, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 49-1408, 49-1425, 49-14,103.02,
49-14,103.03, 49-14,103.05, 49-14,103.06
§ 32.42 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the municipality of
Loup City are hereby fixed and shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk. Such salaries shall be open to public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 1-903)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND TAXATION; FUNDS
Section
Fiscal Management
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Public funds defined
   
33.03   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
33.04   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
33.05   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
33.06   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
33.07   Revision of budget
   
33.08   Budget procedure
   
33.09   Appropriations
   
33.10   Expenditures
   
33.11   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
33.12   Annual audit; financial statements
   
33.13   Claims
   
33.14   Warrants
   
33.15   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
33.16   Bond issues
   
33.17   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
Funds
   
33.30   Special Assessment Fund
   
33.31   Sinking funds
   
33.32   Deposit of funds
   
33.33   Investment of funds
Taxes
   
33.45   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
33.46   Inadequate valuation; petition to exceed maximum levy
   
33.47   Property tax; certification of amount
   
33.48   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
33.49   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
33.50   Motor Vehicle Fee
   
33.51   Sales and Use Tax
Occupation Tax
   
33.60   Levies authorized
   
33.61   Fire insurance companies
   
33.62   Collection date
   
33.63   Certificates
   
33.64   Failure to pay
Cross-reference:
   Occupation tax for catering businesses, see §
111.21
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(1990 Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 448, passed 3-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 33.02 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   PUBLIC FUNDS shall mean all money, including nontax money, used in the
operation and functions of governing bodies. For purposes of a county, city, or
village which has a lottery established under the Nebraska County and City
Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually received by the county,
city, or village from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered public
funds, and public funds shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503) (1990 Code, § 1-801.01) (Ord. 427, passed 3-7-1995)
§ 33.03 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall prepare in writing and file with the City
Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year, on forms prescribed and furnished
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget statement containing the
following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. This statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget exclusive of capital
outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property both for the
purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the Governing
Body, and for all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Governing Body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Governing Body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year, less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property, shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and the amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(1990 Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 476, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 537, passed 6-5-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Proposed budget contents, see Neb. RS 13-504
   Proposed budget estimates, see Neb. RS 13-505
§ 33.04 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the
total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the Governing Body's principal headquarters. At such hearing, the Governing
Body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the Governing Body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the Governing Body and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Governing Body, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Governing Body of such errors. The Governing Body
shall correct any such error as provided in § 35.34. Warrants for the payment
of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be
valid notwithstanding errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has
notified the Governing Body.
   (E)   When the levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors,
the adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(1990 Code, § 1-803) (Ord. 477, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 820, passed 2-6-2018;
Ord. 865, passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507
§ 33.05 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
governing body shall certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser
than the amount determined under municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The governing body shall use the certified taxable values as provided
by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The governing body may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the governing body by
this section.
(1990 Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 449, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 478, passed 8-4-1998;
Ord., passed 1-14-2018; Ord. 821, passed 2-6-2018; Ord. 887, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 33.06 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the Governing Body in
September, the Governing Body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) of
this section, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the
total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the
prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Governing Body that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet
its statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Governing Body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(1990 Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 428, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01, 13-509.02
§ 33.07 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstance which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth;
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county in which the City is
located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the revised budget,
as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall be
referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next fiscal
year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county in which the city is
located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City Council may then
issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the budget.
(1990 Code, § 1-804.02) (Ord. 524, passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 776, passed 1-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-511
§ 33.08 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1990 Code, § 1-805)
§ 33.09 APPROPRIATIONS.
    The Governing Body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed "The Annual Appropriation Bill," in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(1990 Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 450, passed 3-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 33.10 EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any
one year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(1990 Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 33.11 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Governing Body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Governing Body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the Governing Body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
Governing Body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if:
      (1)   The price is $30,000 or less;
      (2)   The price is $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $ 1,000,000;
      (3)   The price is $90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   The price is $120,000 or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy or to prevent a serious loss of or
serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Governing Body and
entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
Governing Body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the Governing Body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the Governing Body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Governing Body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the municipality, the Governing
Body or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of
those materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when
it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the Governing Body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has been established, by an interlocal agreement
with any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the material
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)    For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(1990 Code, § 1-814) (Ord. 469, passed 3-3-1998; Ord. 823, passed 2-6-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 33.12 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The audit shall be completed, and the annual
audit report made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or other enterprises
which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited separately, and
the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report,
and the audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and
materials which conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The audit
report shall set forth the financial position and results of financial
operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality as well as an
opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two copies
of the annual audit report shall be filed with the City Clerk, and shall become
a part of the public records of the City Clerk's office, and will at all times
thereafter be open for public inspection. One copy shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. Every Governing Body that is required herein to
submit to an audit of its accounts shall provide and file with the City Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual
and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(1990 Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Financial statements, see Neb. RS 13-606
   Municipal Auditing Law, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 33.13 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal Treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of the warrant, then the warrant may be drawn in excess of
85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which the
warrant is drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-714) (1990 Code, § 1-816)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-715
§ 33.14 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of the fund.
(1990 Code, § 1-817)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 33.15 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City
Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make
time deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the State
of Nebraska to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made
in excess of the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the
excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner
provided in this section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to
deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Treasurer
shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the
municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned that
such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a
statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the amount of money
of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion
thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned that the
depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by the
provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Governing Body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) of this section, any bank
or capital stock financial institution making application to become a
depository may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to the City Clerk. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal to or greater
than the amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of the deposit insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of the bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of the bank or
capital stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for any
loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Mayor as provided in division (B) of this
section or which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as division (C)
of this section.
(1990 Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 485, passed 9-15-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720
§ 33.16 BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on the bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1990 Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 33.17 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Ord. 854, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 45-623
FUNDS
§ 33.30 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other purpose
unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(1990 Code, § 1-818)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 33.31 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitation set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term not to exceed ten years. In addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the construction,
purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair, not including
maintenance, of any one or more of the following public improvements, including
acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof: city libraries; city
auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational purposes; city
halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses in a single
building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries; city medical
buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospitals. The city
shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as
provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been in
default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of
ten years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C).
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefore,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division, the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do all
things authorized under such resolution of submission but never inconsistent
with this section. The election provided for under this section shall be
conducted as provided under the Election Act.
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds
are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported
to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record
by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(1990 Code, § 1-819) (Ord. 846, passed 1-7-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702, 77-2337
§ 33.32 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Governing Body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one or more banks or capital stock financial institutions of
approved and responsible standing in which the Municipal Treasurer shall keep
at all times, subject to payment on his or her demand, all money held by him or
her as Municipal Treasurer. If there is one or more banks or capital stock
financial institutions located in the municipality which apply for the
privilege of keeping the money and give bond or give security for the repayment
of deposits as provided in this section, such banks or capital stock financial
institutions shall be selected as such depositories. The Municipal Treasurer
shall not give a preference to any one or more of them in the money he or she
may so deposit.
   (B)   The Governing Body shall require from all banks or capital stock
financial institutions either a bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum
amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the
Public Funds Deposit Security Act to secure the payment of all such deposits
and accretions. The Governing Body shall approve the bond or giving of
security. The Municipal Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved. The fact that a stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank
or capital stock financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a member of
the Governing Body, or as any other officer of the municipality shall not
disqualify the bank or capital stock financial institution from acting as a
depository for the municipal funds.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks or capital stock
financial institutions through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
be deemed and construed to be a surety bond to the extent that the deposits are
insured by the Corporation. For deposits so insured, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (D)   The Municipal Treasurer may deposit the funds received and held by him
or her, by virtue of that office, with a cooperative credit association
situated within the boundaries of the county, or a county adjoining thereto,
where the municipality is situated, if the municipality is the depositor, as
well as in a commercial state or national bank if the cooperative credit
association performs all the conditions precedent required by the laws of this
state of commercial state and national banks to qualify them to receive
deposits of such public funds. It shall not be necessary for the municipality,
in making such a deposit of public funds, to purchase shares in the cooperative
credit association or become a member thereof, and such a cooperative credit
association is hereby authorized and empowered to receive the money under these
conditions.
(1990 Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 484, passed 9-15-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-2364,
77-2386 through 77-2397
§ 33.33 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
     Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in the sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the Governing Body of the city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made.
(1990 Code, § 1-821)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 77-2341
TAXES
§ 33.45 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The Governing Body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The Governing Body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the Governing Body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon that method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(1990 Code, § 1-807) (Ord. 482, passed 9-15-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 33.46 INADEQUATE VALUATION; PETITION TO EXCEED MAXIMUM LEVY.
   If the valuation of the municipality has been reduced so that the maximum
levy permitted by §
33.45 is inadequate to produce the necessary revenue, the maximum levy may be
exceeded upon presentation to the Governing Body of petitions signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the municipality requesting the action and
specifying the extent to, and the period of time, not to exceed five years, in
which this maximum may be exceeded. No signature may be withdrawn after the
petitions have been filed with the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall
cause these petitions, accompanied by the certificate of the County Clerk that
he or she has examined the petitions and that they have been signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the municipality, to be filed with the
County Board in which the municipality is located. After the filing, the
Governing Body may exceed the maximum mill levy to the extent and for the
period of time specified in the petitions.
(1990 Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309
§ 33.47 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The Governing Body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(1990 Code, § 1-812) (Ord. 479, passed 8-4-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 33.48 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by __%;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $ ______ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The City of Loup City proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $__ per $100 of assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Loup City will exceed
last year's by __%; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the City of Loup City at (telephone
number and email address of the city).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
of this section to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall
notify the County Assessor of the date, time and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) of this section to a printing
service designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the
postcards shall be paid from the county general fund. Such postcards shall be
mailed at least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost
of creating and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and
postage, shall be divided amount the political subdivisions participating in
the joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each
participating political subdivision. Each accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision's website to the political subdivision's proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase as a result of property taxes in (insert
current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE.
This notice contains estimates of the tax on your property as a result of this
revenue increase. These estimates are calculated on the basis of the proposed
(insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on your property and tax
increase on your property may vary from these estimates;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in previous tax year for each
participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) of this
section, the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property
tax request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax
request over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess
of the allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall
include, but be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by __%;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $ ____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Loup City proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $ ____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Loup City will exceed last
year's by __%.
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage of each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(1990 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 480, passed 9-15-1998; Ord. 523, passed 7-5-2000;
Ord. 822, passed 2-6-2018; Ord. 883, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 927, passed 1-9-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1633
§ 33.49 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the city's property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) of this section. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax
request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year,
it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) of this section and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section. If any county, city,
school district, or community college seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of
the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the city's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city's rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the City Council
seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property
tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of this
section. If any county, city, school district, or community college seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage,
such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-
1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the city's total operating budget, not including reserves,
does not exceed $ 10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the notice
may be posted at the City Council's principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
for the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting the city’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city's property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by __%;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $ ____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Loup City proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $ _____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Loup City will exceed last
year's by __%.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing each resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(1990 Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 481, passed 9-15-1998; Ord. 522, passed 5-9-2000;
Ord. 845, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 884, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 928, passed 1-9-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1632
§ 33.50 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section,
the Governing Body of the city shall have the power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS 60-3,104 and,
as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle Registration
Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and Registration System;
and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle's situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the Road Fund of the city.
(1990 Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 867, passed 2-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1213, 60-301
§ 33.51 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 77-2701 to 77-27,135.01, as
amended from time to time, and known as the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, and
Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-27,148, as amended from time to time, known as the
Local Option Revenue Act, there is hereby imposed a sales and use tax of 0.5%
on the same transactions within the corporate limits of the city on which the
state is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of the above
Acts, as amended from time to time; which tax shall remain in effect for a 15-
year period.
   (B)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
the making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provisions for
tax claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties
and collection, and for the disposition and distribution of the taxes so
imposed and collected shall be as provided by Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-27,148,
as amended, and Neb. RS 77-2701 to 77-27,135.01, as amended.
(1990 Code, § 1-827) (Ord. 493, passed 12-1-1998; Ord. 899, passed 12-6-2022)
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.60 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602,
or 77-408 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation
tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that
Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704.
All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are
imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be
exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments
given exclusively by the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance to impose an
occupation tax of not more that $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the city, for the use,
support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who shall credit the
same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for benefit of the
Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire
Department and allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay over the
proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire
Department, as hereinbefore provided.
   (C)   The occupation tax rates for any business obtaining a liquor license
within the city limits shall be equal to the amount set by the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act as currently set and amended in the future. A copy of the current
rates are attached to Ord. 871 and incorporated by reference.
(1990 Code, § 10-301) (Ord. 751, passed 4-7-2015; Ord. 871, passed 6-8-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525, 35-106, 53-132
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 33.61 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(1990 Code, § 10-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 33.62 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by any
person or persons to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, and specifying the person paying the tax, and the amount paid; provided,
occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be immediately
deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or
her. All forms, and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One
copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(1990 Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 353, passed 10-18-1990; Ord. 354, passed 11-14-
1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 33.63 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. This certificate shall specify the amount of the
tax and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation
tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or carried in
such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being conducted.
(1990 Code, § 10-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 33.64 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation tax as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(1990 Code, § 10-305)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
CHAPTER 34: DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND BOARDS
Section
Standing Committees
   
34.01   Standing committees; general provisions
Commissions and Boards
   
34.15   Board of Adjustment
   
34.16   Board of Health
   
34.17   [Reserved]
   
34.18   Cemetery Board
   
34.19   [Reserved]
   
34.20   Housing Authority; continued existence as Housing Agency
   
34.21   Airport Authority Board
   
34.22   Planning Commission
   
34.23   Pool and Parks Committee
   
34.24   Community Redevelopment Authority
Fire Department
   
34.40   Operation and funding
   
34.41   Fire Chief
   
34.42   Membership
   
34.43   Records
   
34.44   Fires
   
34.45   Distant fires
   
34.46   Fighting distant fires
   
34.47   Preservation of property
   
34.48   Hose tested
   
34.49   Drills
   
34.50   Inspections
   
34.51   Notice of violation
   
34.52   Power of arrest
   
34.53   Fire investigation
Editor's Note:
   The city contracts with the County Sheriff for local law enforcement
services
STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 34.01 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a
term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the Governing Body:
      (1)   Claims;
      (2)   Board of Park Commissioners;
      (3)   Licenses/Finance;
      (4)   Sanitation/Water;
      (5)   Streets;
      (6)   Ordinances;
      (7)   Ambulance Board;
      (8)   Technology/Energy; and
      (9)   Lottery.
   (C)   Each standing committee shall meet at least annually to organize for
the year and at additional times throughout the year as necessary. Meeting of
the committees shall be called by the Chair of each committee. The Chair shall
be determined at the annual meeting of the committee and shall serve until the
new Chair is appointed. The Mayor shall contact the committee Chair to notify
them of any municipal business related to the committee.
(1990 Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 844, passed 1-7-2020)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 34.15 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall appoint, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, a Board of Adjustment which shall consist of five regular members
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason.
Each member of the Board shall serve a term of three years, unless reappointed,
and shall be removable only for cause by the Governing Body upon written
charges and after a public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of
Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the Planning Commission,
and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by such member shall also
result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment
and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the Board of
Adjustment. After the effective date of this section, the first vacancy
occurring on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a
person who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the
municipality at such time as more than 200 persons reside within that area.
Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall
reside outside the corporate boundaries of the municipality but within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting in
February of each year and elect from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and accurate
minutes of all Board meetings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and shall be held at such
times as the Governing Body may designate, or at such other times as the
Chairperson may, in his or her discretion, call a meeting. Special meetings may
be also held upon the call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of doing business. The Board
shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-
914.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by a municipal official
based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation or any regulation
relating to the location or soundness of structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of the zoning
regulations, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of the piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of the property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve the
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   (1)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   The hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of the variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of the variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (E)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of
the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any municipal official, or to decide in favor of the applicant
on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in the regulation.
   (F)   The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing
such other duties as the Governing Body may designate. No member of the
Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment. No member of
the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(1990 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 452, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 786, passed 3-8-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910
§ 34.16 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the Governing Body, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board's medical advisor. The Municipal Police Chief or
his/her designated officer shall serve on the Board as Secretary and Quarantine
Officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation, a one-year
term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting
in February of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two members of
the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress,
and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the State of
Nebraska and city ordinances relating to nuisances and to mattes of sanitation
which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly
inspect such premises and businesses as the Governing Body may direct. All
members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate.
   (D)   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of
the municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such
rules and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections,
prescribe such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that
purpose.
   (E)   The Municipal Police Chief, or his/her designated officer, as
Quarantine Officer shall be the Chief Health Officer of the municipality. It
shall be his/her duty to notify the Governing Body and the Board of Health of
health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the
County Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of
the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 792, passed 7-7-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 34.17 [RESERVED].
§ 34.18 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall appoint the Cemetery Board which shall
consist of six members who are residents of the municipality and who shall
serve without compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall be
appointed each year and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing
Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the first meeting
on the second Wednesday in December of each year, the Board shall organize by
selecting from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. The Secretary shall
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and files the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall have the general care, management, and supervision of
the Municipal Cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting monuments and tombstones on
cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided,
no religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial
therein, and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and
regulations for the proper use of the Cemetery and prescribe penalties and
fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the
sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care, management, and administration
of the Cemetery. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Governing Body and it shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such additional duties as the Governing Body may
designate.
   (C)   No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the Governing Body. No member of
the Cemetery Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(1990 Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 785, passed 3-8-2016; Ord. 890, passed 3-8-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
§ 34.19 [RESERVED].
§ 34.20 HOUSING AUTHORITY; CONTINUED EXISTENCE AS HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   The local Housing Authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a Housing
Agency under the Nebraska Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   The local Housing Agency shall conduct its operations consistent with
the Nebraska Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records, and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of
the Authority belong to the Agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the Authority are obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the successor Agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the Authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to be
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
Agency and binding upon the successor Agency and enforceable by or against the
Agency, notwithstanding that the resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the Nebraska Housing
Agency Act.
   (D)   All commissioners of the local Housing Agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees of the
Agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the Nebraska
Housing Agency Act.
(1990 Code, § 2-205.01) (Ord. 527, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 34.21 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Airport Authority Board shall have the full and exclusive
jurisdiction and control over all facilities owned or hereafter acquired by the
municipality for the purpose of aviation operation, air navigation, and air
safety operation. The Board is a body corporate and politic, constituting a
public corporation, and an agency of the municipality. The Board shall consist
of five members. Members of the Board shall be nominated and elected in the
manner provided by law for the election of other elected officials and shall
take office on the first Tuesday in June of each municipal election year.
Members of the Board shall be residents of the municipality and shall serve a
term of six years. Two members of the Board shall be elected in each municipal
election year; provided, that in each third election year, one member only
shall be elected to the Airport Authority Board. Any vacancy on the Board
resulting from any other cause than the expiration of a term of office shall be
filled by temporary appointment by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, until a successor can be elected at the next general municipal
election to serve the unexpired portion of the term.
   (B)   A member of the Board may be removed from office for incompetence,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. An action for the removal of the
officer may be brought, upon resolution of the City Council, in the District
Court of the county. The Board shall have such other powers and duties as may
be prescribed by state law.
(Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514) (1990 Code, § 2-206)
§ 34.22 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Governing
Body. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there are 500 residents in the area over which the
municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one
regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the Governing Body that 500 residents reside in the area subject
to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a
regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission
shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. A number of
commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members appointed to
the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. The
term of each regular member shall be three years. All regular members shall
hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a
public hearing before the Governing Body, be removed by the Mayor with the
consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the Governing Body for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Governing Body, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Governing Body.
The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the Governing Body;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for re-election.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Governing Body may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Governing Body may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Governing Body; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
Commission's judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested municipality departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Governing Body shall not take the final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Governing Body within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Governing Body has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Governing Body has designated, by ordinance, and agent pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Governing Body,
in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the municipality;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)    (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Governing
Body has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized
the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Governing Body
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Governing Body may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards
and procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a
manner that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Governing Body
regarding a conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District
Court.
(1990 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 429, passed 3-7-1995; Ord. 451, passed 3-5-1996;
Ord. 486, passed 9-15-1998; Ord. 813, passed 1-4-2018; Ord. 858, passed 1-5-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-926 through 19-929
§ 34.23 POOL AND PARKS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall appoint a Pool and Parks Committee consisting
of at least five individuals, two of which will be members of the City Council
and the remaining three shall be volunteers appointed at the recommendation of
the Mayor. Each Committee member shall serve for one year unless reappointed.
   (B)   The Committee shall meet in during the month of December each year in
order to appoint a Chairperson and a Secretary. They will then meet at times
called by the Chairperson as necessary throughout the year. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (C)   The Committee shall be in charge of making recommendations to the City
Council regarding the upkeep, rules and regulations, management, use and
operation of all city-owned parks, recreation areas and the municipal pool. The
Committee shall also be responsible for interviewing and recommending the
hiring of pool staff to the city. Due to the Committee being an advisory body,
it does not need to hold open meetings unless a quorum of the City Council is
present or the City Council votes to have the Committee make a decision on its
behalf.
   (D)   All recommendations from the Committee shall be made to the City Clerk
in writing to be provided no later than the Wednesday immediately before the
monthly City Council Meeting. The City Council must take action on any
recommendation before it is a valid action, except for the hiring and firing of
staff which shall be decided by the Mayor.
(1990 Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 897, passed 10-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-952
§ 34.24 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment Authority of the
city.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Authority. The terms of office of the members of the authority initially
appointed shall be for one year, two years, three years, four years, and five
years, as designated by the Mayor in making the respective appointments. As the
terms of the members of the authority expire, the Mayor, with the approval of
the Governing Body of the city, shall appoint or reappoint a member of the
authority for a term of five years to succeed the member whose term expires.
The authority shall organize by electing one of its members Chairperson of the
Authority, and another of its members Vice-Chairperson. The presence of four
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The
Authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
records shall be made available for public inspection during regular business
hours.
   (C)   Community Redevelopment Authorities of the city may secure the
services of a director, community redevelopment administrator, or coordinator,
and other officers and employees as may be desired through contract with the
Department of Economic Development upon terms which are mutually agreeable. The
Director, when appointed, shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Community
Redevelopment Authority, and shall perform such duties as may be assigned by
the Authority, including the necessary administrative functions described in
the statutes under which the Authority has been created.
   (D)   All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the Authority
shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as ex officio Treasurer of the
Authority without commingling such money with any other money under his or her
control and disbursed by him or her by check or draft only upon warrants,
orders or requisitions by the Chairperson of the Authority or other person
authorized by the Authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose for which
the same are drawn. The Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all receipts and disbursements and make an annual report of
such activities, receipts, and disbursements to the Governing Body of the city.
A permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of all warrants, orders or
requisitions so drawn, showing the date, amount, consideration and to whom
payable.
   (E)   The Authority shall be vested with all the powers, duties and
responsibilities set forth in Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., the Community
Development Law.
(1990 Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 471, passed 5-5-1998)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from this tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund
shall be at all times in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
(1990 Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, 17-953
§ 34.41 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders,
or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
Governing Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body
at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
Governing Body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(1990 Code, § 3-402)
§ 34.42 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members for each Fire
Department Company subject to the review and approval of the Governing Body.
All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. The members shall be considered
to be employees of the municipality for the purpose of providing them with
workers' compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a
term life insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000 for death from any
cause to age 65 and the policy shall, at the option of the individual
firefighter, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65;
provided, that the firefighter covered is actively and faithfully performing
the duties of his or her position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many
members as may be decided by the Governing Body. The members may organize
themselves in any way they may decide, subject to the review of the Governing
Body. They may hold meetings and engage in social activities with the approval
of the Governing Body. The Secretary shall upon request keep a record of all
meetings and shall make a report to the Governing Body of all meetings and
activities of the Fire Department. The Governing Body may, for services
rendered, compensate or reward any member or members of the Fire Department in
an amount set by resolution. All members of the Fire Department shall be
subject to such rules and regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be
prescribed or required of them by the Fire Chief or the Governing Body. The
members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public
danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall
have full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of
the municipal code, or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   Provided, however, volunteer firefighters and rescue squad members
testifying as a witness in connection with their officially assigned duties in
that capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the State of Nebraska or
of the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 3-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103,
35-108
§ 34.43 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he or she
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 3-404)
§ 34.44 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(1990 Code, § 3-405)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Regulations, see
Ch. 92
§ 34.45 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body as rural equipment may
be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
(1990 Code, § 3-406)
§ 34.46 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for the Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 3-407)
§ 34.47 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of the
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(1990 Code, § 3-408)
§ 34.48 HOSE TESTED.
   All fire hose shall be pressure tested at least two times each year.
(1990 Code, § 3-409)
§ 34.49 DRILLS.
   The Municipal Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least
six times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
(1990 Code, § 3-410)
§ 34.50 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Governing Body, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, all
buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the interiors of private
dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any
conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection shall be of the
storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and explosives;
electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits in case of
fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories, hospitals, and
all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from time to time
for any purpose, whether publicly or privately owned; the design, construction,
location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing, handling, and
utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization of the gases
and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films,
or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter exist.
(1990 Code, § 3-411)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 34.51 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon the finding that the municipal code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner's last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her agent, appeal the order with the Governing Body
requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to hear the
same within not less than five days nor more than ten days from the time when
the request was filed in writing with the City Clerk. The Governing Body shall
then affirm, modify, or rescind the order as safety and justice may require,
and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the
aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or
rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists and that
conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in complying
literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made
shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager making
the appeal.
(1990 Code, § 3-412)
§ 34.52 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power,
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. These officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(1990 Code, § 3-413)
§ 34.53 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether the fire was the
result of carelessness, accident, or design. The investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of the fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him
or her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(1990 Code, § 3-414)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-506
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
35.01   Intergovernmental Risk Management; Authority
Economic Development Program
   
35.10   Program adopted by reference
Local Option Municipal Sales Tax Program
   
35.20   Confidentiality policy for participants
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 35.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   PUBLIC AGENCY means any county, city, village, school district, public
power district, rural fire district, or other political subdivision of this
state, the State of Nebraska, the University of Nebraska, and any corporation
whose primary function is to act as an instrumentality or agency of the State
of Nebraska.
   (B)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act to form, become members of, and
operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to members risk
management services and insurance coverages in the form of group self-insurance
or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-insurance and
standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising from any of the
following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property,
including but not limited to loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers' compensation liability.
   (C)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the Act
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident, and life insurance to member's employees and officers.
(1990 Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 570, passed 6-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4303, 44-4304
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
§ 35.10 PROGRAM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Economic Development Program for the City of Loup City, Nebraska as set
forth in Ordinance 614 is hereby incorporated by reference as though printed in
full herein. Copies of the Economic Development Program shall be kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of
the public during office hours.
(Ord. 614, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. 900, passed 12-6-2022)
LOCAL OPTION MUNICIPAL SALES TAX PROGRAM
§ 35.20 CONFIDENTIALITY POLICY FOR PARTICIPANTS.
   (A)   Policy. It is a policy of the city for proper operation of its
Economic Development Program that requires any public officials and employees
and any members who are part of this program be receptive to the confidential
nature of the information that is being provided by businesses, and that the
public have confidence in the integrity of its citizens that this information
shall not be disclosed. In recognition of these goals, the following
confidentiality ordinance for all of the city officials and the program
administrator of the city's program is hereby adopted.
   (B)   Persons affected. All members of the Sherman County Economic
Development Board, Loup City Council, the Loan Committee established under the
Loan Program and the Citizens Advisory Review Committee, or any other employee
of the city, the Economic Development Board or any Administrator of the LB 840
Program who are in possession of, or have access to, financial information must
sign an agreement pledging that they will not release this information and that
this information shall be kept confidential.
   (C)   Disclosure.
      (1)   In the event that anyone does disclose financial information or
other information that is confidential, he or she shall be subject to
disciplinary action if he or she is an employee of the city, or he or she shall
be subject to removal from a board of the city if he or she is a member of a
board, or shall be subject to removal by the Economic Development Board, if it
is one of its committee members. City Councilmembers shall be subject to
sanction.
      (2)   This section has four purposes:
         (a)   To encourage high ethical standards by the citizens, officials,
boards, and employees;
         (b)   To establish a requirement for strict confidentiality in the
conduct of all officials and employees;
         (c)   To prohibit disclosure by such officials and employees of any
private financial or other confidential information provided to them by
business applicants; and
         (d)   To serve as a basis for disciplining those who fail to abide by
its terms.
   (D)   Standard of conduct.
      (1)   All city officials, employees, or any organization which has been
contracted and may be provided confidential information shall sign a pledge of
confidentiality.
      (2)   No city officials or employees shall disclose any confidential
information either while they are an employee or even after their leave of
employment. If there are any conflicts of interest by any city official or
employee, appointee of the city, or the Program Administrator of the city's LB
840 Program, this conflict of interest shall be disclosed on the records of
either the City Council or the minutes of the meeting of that body, and they
shall refrain from participating in any discussion or voting thereon.
      (3)   No city officials or employees or anyone contracted with the city
should willfully and knowingly use confidential information either for
pecuniary gain or disclose to any other person confidential information
acquired in the course of and by reason of their official duties.
      (4)   No former city official, employee or anyone who has been contracted
with by the city to administer the LB 840 Program shall use any confidential
information to which he or she has had access by virtue of his or her official
capacity and which has not been made public concerning the property, operations
or affairs of any public body that has disclosed information pursuant to the LB
840 Program.
   (E)   Disposition of alleged violations; hearings. Violations, complaints
and alleged violations of this section shall be handled as follows:
      (1)   In the case of city employees, disciplinary action shall be
maintained as provided in the city's personnel policies, as the same may from
time to time be amended.
      (2)   In the case of city officials, employees or members of the SCEDB,
upon the complaint of any person filed with the City Clerk's office or on its
own initiative, the City Council shall consider possible violations of this
section.
         (a)   A complaint alleging a violation of this section must be filed
with the City Clerk within one year from the commission of the action alleged
as a violation, and not afterward.
         (b)   Not later than five working days after the City Clerk receives a
complaint, the City Clerk shall acknowledge the receipt of the complaint to the
complainant, and provide a copy of the complaint to the city, the City
Attorney, and the City Council and the person complained against. Not later
than ten working days after receipt of a complaint, the City Council shall
notify in writing the person who made the complaint and the person complained
against of a date for a preliminary hearing.
         (c)   The City Council may consider possible violations of this
section on its own initiative. Within five working days of the City Council's
decision to consider a possible violation of this section, the City Council
shall draft a written complaint specifying the section(s) of this section
alleged to have been violated and shall file a copy with the City Clerk, and
provide a copy to the City Attorney and the person complained against. Not
later than ten working days after the filing of the complaint with the City
Clerk, the City Council shall notify in writing the person complained against
of the date for the preliminary hearing.
         (d)   The hearing before the City Council may be either in public or
in private. All hearings shall be in public, unless the person complained
against shall notify the City Clerk in writing of his or her desire to have a
private hearing at least 72 hours prior to the time set for the hearing.
   (F)   Preliminary hearing.
      (1)   The issue at a preliminary hearing shall be the existence of
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of this section has occurred.
The person filing a complaint, or the legal counsel for the City Council in
cases considered upon the City Council's own initiative, shall state the
alleged violation and shall describe in narrative from the testimony and other
evidence which would be presented to prove the alleged violation as stated in
the written complaint. Statements at a preliminary hearing shall be under oath,
but there shall be no cross-examination or requests for persons or evidence
issued for the hearing. Members of the City Council may question the
complainant, legal counsel for the City Council, or the city official named in
the complaint.
      (2)   The city official, employee or member of the SCEDB named in the
complaint shall have the opportunity to respond, but is not required to attend
or make any statement. The official may describe in narrative form the
testimony and other evidence which would be presented to disprove the alleged
violation. If the official agrees that a violation has occurred, he or she may
so state and the City Council may consider the appropriate sanction or
prosecution.
      (3)   The complainant and the city official named in the complaint shall
have the right of representation by counsel.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the preliminary hearing, the City Council
shall decide whether a final hearing should be held.
         (a)   If the City Council determines that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, it shall schedule a
final hearing.
         (b)   If the City Council does not determine that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation of this section has occurred, the complaint
shall be automatically dismissed.
         (c)   A decision to conduct a final hearing is not a finding that a
violation has occurred.
      (5)   The City Council, at any time during the preliminary hearing, may
also dismiss a complaint if the complaint does not allege conduct which would
be a violation of this chapter. Before a complaint is dismissed for failure to
allege a violation, the complainant or the legal counsel for the City Council
shall be permitted one opportunity, within a period to be specified by the City
Council, to revise and resubmit the complaint.
      (6)   The complainant, legal counsel for the City Council, and the city
official named in the complaint may ask the City Council at a preliminary
hearing to request certain persons and evidence for a final hearing, if one is
scheduled pursuant to the City Council's subpoena power granted.
   (G)   Final hearing.
      (1)   The final hearing shall be held as expeditiously as possible
following the determination by the City Council that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation of this section has occurred, but in no
event shall it be held more than 30 days after the determination. The City
Council may grant one postponement, not to exceed 15 days each, upon the
request of the city official named in the complaint or the complainant.
      (2)   The issue at a final hearing shall be whether a violation of this
section has occurred. The City Council shall make its determination based on
the preponderance of the credible evidence in the record. All witnesses shall
make their statements under oath. If the City Council determines that a
violation has occurred, it shall state its findings in writing, shall identify
the particular section(s) of this section which have been violated, and within
five working days shall deliver a copy of the findings to the complainant, if
any, the person named in the complaint, and the City Clerk. The findings shall
constitute a public record for the purpose of access by the public.
   (H)   Violations. Those found to have violated this section shall be subject
to fines, penalties, possible removal from committee positions, censure and
other legal remedies.
(Ord. 619, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
         
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
52.   WATER DEPARTMENT
         
53.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Billing
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services; penalty
   
50.04   Lien
   
50.05   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.06   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
   
50.07   Billing on rental properties
Natural Gas Regulations
   
50.15   Natural gas regulations; adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 BILLING.
   Utility bills shall be a joint bill for all utilities including water and
sewer and shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City Clerk. It
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to compute or cause to be computed a joint
bill at the end of each month according to the appropriate provisions of this
code. It shall be the duty of all utilities customers to cause to be mailed or
to present themselves at the office of the City Clerk and pay their bill for
all utility charges. Bills shall be deemed delinquent if not paid by the tenth
business day of the month in which they are due.
(1990 Code, § 3-301)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
   (B)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and
remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within 25
days after the date that the same becomes delinquent.
   (C)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days.
   (D)   The notice required by division (C) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the utility's employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household, Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the utility's service for a
period of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection
shall be allowed under this division for each incidence of nonpayment of any
past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works.
   (E)   The utility shall notify any designated third party of the domestic
subscriber by providing the third party a copy of the notice as described in
division (D) that is sent to the domestic subscriber. The notice shall be given
to the designated third party in any manner outlined in division (C). The
utility shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
designated third party domestic subscriber notification policy outlined in this
division.
   (F)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (G)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made
by the domestic subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may
discontinue services.
   (H)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (I)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(1990 Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 777, passed 1-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Utilities and disconnection procedures, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
   (A)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against any
person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility. A municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the municipality
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering,
or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or loss
is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(1) or (2) of this
section the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred
on account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, including but
not limited to disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant:
      (1)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the premises
where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to exist;
and
      (2)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(1990 Code, § 3-303)
Statutory reference:
   Diversion of services, see Neb. RS 25-21,275 through 25-21,278
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for
which the same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause
to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever
their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of the
utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to report to the
Governing Body a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities service together
with a description of the premises served. The report shall be examined, and if
approved by the Governing Body, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(1990 Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01, 18-503
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter provided for measuring or registering the
amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or
knowingly permits the use of water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized
ways, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters, or by any instrument,
device, or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of
the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615, or §
50.02, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, or obstruction of a meter as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury alteration or obstruction is proved to exist.
(1990 Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 453, passed 3-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.06 DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitation or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(1990 Code, § 3-306) (Ord. 511, passed 11-2-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1601
§ 50.07 BILLING ON RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   The owner of record according to the records of the Sherman County
Assessor, shall be responsible for the payment of utility and other bills when
service is provided to the property. The city shall only provide service to the
property owner(s) of record.
   (B)   As the owner(s) of the property to which service is provided, the
individual(s), corporation(s), or estate(s) shall be responsible for all debts
due to the city for utility service(s) supplied to the property.
(Ord. 588, passed 4-20-2004; Ord. 763, passed 10-6-2015)
NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for a more uniform natural gas rate increase procedure and to
allow the municipality more control over rising gas rates, the City of Loup
City, Nebraska hereby adopts ordinances regulating rate increases of natural
gas. One copy of such ordinances shall be on file at the office of the City
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
natural gas regulations shall have the same effect and force as if printed in
full herein.
(1990 Code, § 10-502)
Cross-reference:
   Gas transmission and distribution franchises, specifics, see
TSO I
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Municipal Landfill
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   State regulation
   
51.03   Established
Garbage Disposal
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Garbage; trash, and waste
   
51.17   Dead animals
   
51.18   City tree dump
   
51.19   Solid waste; liability for charges
   51.20   Cardboard collection
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
51.35   Authority
   
51.36   Notice; removal
   
51.37   Nuisance
   
51.38   Lien
   
51.39   Mandatory residential service
   
51.40   Fees and collections
   
51.41   Tipping fee for collection of white goods
   
51.42   Burning unlawful
MUNICIPAL LANDFILL
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal landfill through an
interlocal agreement with several area municipalities and counties. The
Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the costs of the care, management,
and maintenance of the municipal landfill may each year levy a tax not to
exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Landfill
Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The direct
management and control of the municipal landfill shall be managed according to
the interlocal agreement and the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the landfill shall be according to
said agreement. The rates set for landfill services shall be made available at
the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 3-601) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 51.02 STATE REGULATION.
   All licenses to operate the municipal landfill shall be obtained as outline
in the interlocal agreement. Said agreement shall ensure that all Department of
Environmental Control rules and regulations are adhered to during the use and
operation of the municipal landfill.
(1990 Code, § 3-602) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.03 ESTABLISHED.
   The Governing Body shall, from time to time, by resolution or order,
designate, regulate and control the municipal landfill, either within or
without the corporate limits of the municipality, upon which shall be dumped
waste materials and garbage of any nature. It shall be unlawful for any person
to dump materials on the municipal landfill unless and until he or she has
complied with all the rules and regulations and paid any fee which may be
prescribed. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any waste materials and
garbage of any nature on any other place within the corporate limits or within
the jurisdiction of the municipality for the regulation of health without first
applying for and receiving a written permit from the Chairperson of the Board
of Health to do such dumping.
(1990 Code, § 3-603) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(1990 Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(1990 Code, § 4-203)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(1990 Code, § 4-203.01) (Ord. 432, passed 3-7-1995; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
§ 51.16 GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may
be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles provided by the
municipality or its refuse hauler. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into
the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails,
pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of any kind. No person may permit
garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall remove the
same from their property within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the
Municipal Police Chief who shall represent the Board of Health. Any person
having garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or
fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place the same
in receptacles provided by the municipality or its refuse hauler, with the lid
completely closed.
(1990 Code, § 4-204) (Ord. 881, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.17 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or
above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
municipality or its inhabitants. Such animals may, however, be buried in the
municipal landfill.
(1990 Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-114, 17-123, 17-207
§ 51.18 CITY TREE DUMP.
   The city dump shall be open only to the dumping of tree limbs, grass
clippings, leaves and branches by residents of the city or personnel approved
by the Mayor and/or City Clerk. Persons dumping anything else, including, but
not limited to trash, refuse, garbage, animal matter or putrescible, hazardous
waste, major appliances or construction debris, therein will be prosecuted
under the laws of the State of Nebraska for littering.
(1990 Code, § 4-213) (Ord. 408, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 758, passed 8-4-2015;
Ord. 825, passed 4-3-2018; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.19 SOLID WASTE; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The Governing Body has separately established charges to be paid to it by
each person whose residential premises have an active water meter. For purposes
of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed to be served by the municipal
solid waste collection system and the owner and occupant of the premises shall
be deemed served and therefore liable for the charges.
(1990 Code, § 4-214) (Ord. 510, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.20 CARDBOARD COLLECTION.
   The city shall provide a dumpster in the City Yards for cardboard collection
only. Said collection shall only be for residents of the City of Loup City,
Nebraska, who have an active water meter. Said dumpster shall be under video
surveillance and only be accessible between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. Any person in violation of this section shall be penalized as provided in
§
10.99.
(Ord. 931, passed 3-5-2024)
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 51.35 AUTHORITY.
   The Governing Body for the city may provide for the collection and removal
of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or
alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city
may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot or land to
remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads, or
alleys.
(1990 Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.36 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(1990 Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.37 NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
51.36 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(1990 Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.38 LIEN.
   Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the governing body, assess the cost of the removal against such
lot or land.
(1990 Code, § 4-209) (Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.39 MANDATORY RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   The city will, by contract, provide weekly curbside collection of
normal household trash, refuse, garbage, and the like, from all residences
within the municipality with an active water meter.
   (B)   (1)   These collections are to be made on a specific day, unless
weather or other adverse conditions make it impossible for the collector to
perform its task on that specific day, in which case it will be collected on
the following day or as soon thereafter as conditions permit. Collections will
be made during normal working hours or from sunrise to sunset whichever is the
greater length of time.
      (2)   Residents shall have the refuse ready for collection at the street
curbside by 6:00 a.m. the day of pick-up in the receptacles provided by the
municipality or its refuse hauler with lids completed closed. No lawn clippings
or trimmings may be placed with refuse, mixed or separately, for regular pickup
between April 1 and November 1 or as may be designated from time to time by
state or federal regulations. Any lawn clippings or trimming shall be put in
properly secured plastic bags by the resident and placed at the curbside
location for pickup by the collector, provided however, that the law clippings
and trimmings shall be limited to six plastic bags per residence. Additional
pickup at any one residence shall be contracted for directly with the collector
on an individual basis at established rates approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Residents will be responsible for litter or spillage prior to
collection. The collection contractor shall be responsible for litter or
spillage after collection, and all refuse collected by the contractor shall be
delivered to and deposited in the Loup Central Landfill.
(1990 Code, § 4-210) (Ord. 408, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.40 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   Each residence will be charged an amount set by resolution of the City
Council for refuse collection. The charge will be included on the water and
sewer bill and still be collected in the same manner. This amount may be
changed at any time by resolution of the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 4-211) (Ord. 408, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.41 TIPPING FEE FOR COLLECTION OF WHITE GOODS.
   (A)   The city will not accept, store or dispose of any washers, dryers,
refrigerators or any other item considered to be “white goods”, without payment
of a tipping fee for each item. The tipping fee shall be set by resolution of
the City Council and such fee may be changed at any time by resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   Tipping fee shall be paid to the City Clerk prior to delivery of any
and all white goods.
(Ord. 568, passed 3-4-2003; Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 51.42 BURNING UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, bum, or cause to be
burned, any garbage, trash, refuse, animal matter, vegetable matter, straw,
hay, leaves, brush, or any other items or matter, except paper products. It
shall be unlawful to do any such burning in the streets, alleys or land of the
city; except as provided for in §
92.31 of the city’s code.
(1990 Code, § 4-212) (Ord. 408, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 414, passed 12-7-1993;
Ord. 892, passed 4-5-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Operation and funding
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Consumer's application
   
52.004   Service to nonresidents
   
52.005   Water contract
   
52.006    Prohibition of the addition of fluoride to the water system
Connections
   
52.015   Installation procedure
   
52.016   Installation expense
   
52.017   Repairs
   
52.018   Single premises
   
52.019   Restricted use
   
52.020   Fire hydrants
   
52.021   Pollution
   
52.022   Mandatory hookup
   
52.023   Water service contracts
   
52.024   Inspection
   
52.025   Police reports
   
52.026   Destruction of property
Fees and Charges
   
52.040   Fees and collections
   
52.041   Rates
   
52.042   Water bills
   
52.043   Lien
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
52.060   Statement of policy
   
52.061   Definitions
   
52.062   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.063   Survey and investigations
   
52.064   Where protection is required
   
52.065   Type of protection required
   
52.066   Approved backflow prevention devices
   
52.067   Installation
   
52.068   Inspection testing and maintenance
   
52.069   "Special caution" thermal expansion
   
52.070   Approved methods of filling tanks/tanker trucks
   
52.071   Authorized representative; authority
   
52.072   Appeals
   
52.073   Violations
   
52.074   Liability claims
Water Emergency
   
52.085   Drought Emergency Contingency Plan
Water Wells
   
52.095   Prohibited; exceptions
Wellhead Protection
   
52.105   Wellhead protection boundary, adopted
   
52.106   Wellhead protection regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Water Commissioner. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Water Commissioner shall have the direct management
and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his or her office. The Water Commissioner shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-534) (1990 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 19-1305
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer's premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(1990 Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.003 CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Water Commissioner. The Water Commissioner may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she deems necessary
subject to the review of the Governing Body. Water may not be supplied to any
house or private service pipe except upon the written order of the Water
Commissioner.
(1990 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537, 19-2701
§ 52.004 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Governing Body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to nonresidents.
(1990 Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.005 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and shall
be considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to the consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the municipality, to which
contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the
provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner or his or her agent
may cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or premises or
place of the violation. No further connection for water service to the
building, premises, or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
Commissioner or his or her agent.
(1990 Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.006 PROHIBITION OF THE ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO THE WATER SYSTEM.
   As the result of an election of the people of the city, held November 6,
2012, the addition or introduction of any fluoride into the municipal water
supply of the city shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 692, passed 12-4-2012)
CONNECTIONS
§ 52.015 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Water Commissioner shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Water Commissioner. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service is restored. It
is the customer's responsibility to notify the Commissioner at the time the
work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the
supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
specifications prescribed for such installation by the Water Commissioner;
provided that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and
approved by the Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.016 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main, installing the
meter, and providing fixtures and labor up to and including the stop box at the
lot line of the customer. No person other than the Water Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized agent shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay a
tap fee in such sum as the Water Commissioner shall require in each case;
provided, that a tap for a three-quarter-inch pipe shall be deemed to be the
minimum or base tap fee. The customer shall at his or her own expense bring
water service from the stop box and upon his or her own premises and shall
employ a licensed plumber who shall install water service to the place of
dispersement. Nonresidents shall pay such tap fees and installation charges in
such sums as the Water Commissioner, pursuant to resolution of the Governing
Body, shall in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied
territory within the corporate limits may be made by means of water extension
districts.
(1990 Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.017 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the municipality. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense
of the municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness.
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Water Commissioner shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such
meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of the test shall be borne by the municipality. The
municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time,
and if the meter is found to be beyond repair, the municipality shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer's water service fixtures at
municipal expense. Should a consumer's meter fail to register properly, the
customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair
on the basis of the quarterly consumption during the same quarter of the
preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the
customer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Water
Commissioner.
(1990 Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.018 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(1990 Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.019 RESTRICTED USE.
   The Governing Body or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(1990 Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.020 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(1990 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.021 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(1990 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.022 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the Governing Body, to hook up with the Municipal Water System.
(1990 Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.023 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water service
to be shut off at the premises. If the consumer should fail to give such
notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the premises until the
Water Commissioner is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(1990 Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.024 INSPECTION.
   The Water Commissioner, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1990 Code, § 3-119)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.025 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff or other designated local law
enforcement officers to report to the Water Commissioner all cases of leakage
and waste in the use of water and all violations of the municipal code relating
to the Water Department. They shall have the additional duty of enforcing the
observance of all such regulations.
(1990 Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.026 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Water Commissioner.
(1990 Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 52.040 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix, by resolution, the
rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the municipality on the account of the Water Department. He
or she shall faithfully account for and pay to the Municipal Treasurer all
revenue collected by him or her, taking his or her receipt therefor in
duplicate, filing one with the City Clerk and keeping the other on file in the
Water Department's official records.
(1990 Code, § 3-109)
§ 52.041 RATES.
   (A)   Effective on the billing date on or after November 1, 2024, to be made
to users of water supplied by the City of Loup City Water Department of the
City of Loup City, Nebraska, the rates charged by the City Water Department
shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size and Usage                                             Rate
Customer charge, all Residential and Commercial with 0.75" to 1" $21/month
meters
Usage, per 1,000 gallons                                         $2/month
Charge for 2" meter                                              $75/month
Charge for 3" meter                                              $100/month
Charge for 4" meter                                              $100/month
 
   (B)   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Water Commissioner to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he or
she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned
on again.
(1990 Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 390, passed 11-17-1992; Ord. 566, passed 3-4-2003;
Ord. 600, passed 12-6-2005; Ord. 623, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. 839, passed 6-4-
2019; Ord. 938, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 52.042 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk. The Water Commissioner shall read or cause to be read water meters
monthly sometime during the two weeks prior to the mailing of the water bills
to the customers. It shall be the duty of the customers of the Water Department
to present themselves monthly at the office of the City Clerk to pay their
bills in net cash or to cause their payment to be mailed to the office of the
City Clerk. The Water Commissioner shall direct the City Clerk to charge and
collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last
examination together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water
Department.
   (B)   All users shall be billed monthly on the first day of the month. Bills
shall be due and payable by the tenth day of the month. Any payment not
received within ten days after the billing is made shall be delinquent.
   (C)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added to
each delinquent bill for each ten days of delinquency. When any bill is 30 days
in default, rendition of water service to such premises shall be discontinued
until the bill is paid following due notice and opportunity for hearing. All
penalties and procedures concerning delinquent accounts with the Municipal
Water Department shall also be applicable to delinquent accounts with the
Municipal Sewer Department.
   (D)   The city will review the water rates at least every two years and
revise the water rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the cost of operation and maintenance including
replacement and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement costs among
users and user classes.
(1990 Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 390, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 52.043 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, the amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or
cause to be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agents,
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner to report monthly
to the Governing Body a list of all unpaid accounts due for water together with
a description of the premises upon which the same was used. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the Governing Body, shall be certified by the City
Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
(1990 Code, § 3-112) (Ord. 467, passed 12-17-1996; Ord. 851, passed 8-4-2020)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 52.060 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public potable water
supply of the City of Loup City water system from contamination or pollution by
containing within the consumer's internal distribution system or private water
system contaminants or pollutants which could backflow through the consumer's
plumbing or service connection into the public potable water supply system.
   (B)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer's potable water supply systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water system of the City of Loup City, and will be reasonably
interpreted. It is the city's intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard
and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard.
   (D)   This subchapter provides for the maintenance of a continuing program
of cross-connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent
the contamination or pollution of the public potable water supply system.
      (1)   The city shall be primarily responsible to implement this
subchapter to prevent contamination or pollution of the public water supply
system due to backflow or cross-connections for the protection of the water
supply system and the residents of this community.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner shall be responsible for the protection of
the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Water Commissioner, an approved backflow
prevention assembly is required (at the customer's water service connection;
or, within the customer's private water system) for the safety of the water
system, the Water Commissioner or his or her designated agent shall give notice
in writing to the customer to install such an approved backflow prevention
assembly at specific location on his or her premises. The customer shall
immediately install the approved assembly; and, failure, refusal, or inability
on the part of the customer to install, have tested, and maintain the assembly
shall constitute grounds from discontinuing water service to the premises until
such requirements have been approved and satisfactorily met. The assembly shall
be approved by the Water Commissioner prior to installation.
      (3)   The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement and
maintain the program to control cross-connections and backsiphonage. The
consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the water system within
consumer's own premises.
      (4)   The consumer is responsible for backsiphoned material or
contamination and/or pollution through backflow and, if contamination or
pollution of the city potable water supply system occurs through an illegal
cross-connection and/or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device,
or a device that has been bypassed, he or she shall be liable for all
associated costs or cleanup required for the public potable water supply
system.
(1990 Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other devices and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch.
   APPROVED CERTIFIED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test
and repair backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is
approved by the city and certified by the Nebraska State Health Department.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
this cross- connection control subchapter.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, or any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances, into the distribution system of a public water
supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.  Any device, method, or type of construction
approved by the Nebraska State Health Department, intended to prevent backflow/
backsiphonage into the public water supply system.
   BACKSIPHONAGE.  The flowing back of water, or other foreign liquids, gases,
or substances, into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in
the distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to the public water supply system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply system by installing a
cross-connection control device, air gap separation, or other backflow
prevention device, on the main service line to a facility, or as an
installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease by exposure.
CONTAMINATION may be a threat to life or health, or may cause an aesthetic
deterioration, color, taste, or odor.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems; one of which contains potable water of the
public water supply system, and the second, water of unknown or questionable
safety, or steam, gases, chemicals, or substances whereby there may be backflow
from the second system to the public water supply system. No physical CROSS-
CONNECTION shall be permitted between a public water supply system and an
auxiliary water supply system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system of the city.
      (1)   Health. Any condition, device, or practice in the public water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   Plumbing. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air gap
separation, or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   Pollution. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or to the consumer's potable water system but which would
constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage
to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   System. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public water system or the consumer's potable water
system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a protracted effect
on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility water service line by installing a
cross-connection control/backflow prevention device or air gap separation on an
individual fixture, appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter or type of shutoff valve is installed at the end of the
service line, then the SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter
or valve.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Municipal Water Department of the City of Loup City,
Nebraska.
(1990 Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.062 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   No connection to a service line or supply line shall be made prior to
the terminal end of the service line unless the connection is protected by an
approved backflow device, unless such connection is approved by the city or its
authorized representative.
   (D)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using plumbing practices considered acceptable by the
Municipal Water Department, its authorized representative, or the Nebraska
State Health Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(1990 Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.063 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative, for the conduction of surveys and
investigations or water practices within the consumer's premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections in the consumer's water
system.
   (B)   The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the City of Loup City, Nebraska, to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violations of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes
known, the Water Commissioner or Utilities Superintendent shall require the
customer to correct the condition within 14 days. If the condition is not
corrected within 14 days then the Water Commissioner or Utilities
Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with state and city statutes relating to
plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(1990 Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.064 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer's water
supply system when, in the judgment of the city or its authorized
representative, a health, plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists. The
type and degree of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard and/or type of contamination that may enter the public water supply
system.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the city or its authorized representative,
the nature and extent of activities on the premises, or the materials used in
connection with the activities, or materials stored on the premises, would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection
occur, even though the cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow
prevention device is required to be installed. This includes but is not limited
to the following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the city or its authorized representative
and the Nebraska Department of Health.
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist.
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
      (5)   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion.
      (6)   Premises on which any contamination-causing substance is handled
under pressure so as to permit entry into the public water supply system, or
where a cross-connection could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall
include the handling of process waters and cooling waters.
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the city or its
authorized representative or the Nebraska Department of Health to protect the
public water supply and must be installed at these facilities unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized
representative and the Nebraska Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile service facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire protection systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (11)   Laundries and dry cleaning facilities;
      (12)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (13)   Beauty salons;
      (14)   Schools;
      (15)   Sewage pumping stations and wastewater treatment plants;
      (16)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection; and
      (17)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, or others as discovered by
surveys.
(1990 Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.065 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows:
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system or the consumer water system may be contaminated with
substances that could cause a severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle (RPZ) backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system or consumer water system may be contaminated with a
substance that could cause a health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation, reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention (RPZ), double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker,
atmospheric vacuum breaker, or frost free vacuum breaker shall be installed
where the public potable water system or consumer water system may be polluted
with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
   (D)   In the case of any premises where, in the opinion of the Water
Commissioner or Utilities Superintendent, an undue health threat is posed
because of the presence of extremely toxic substances, the Water Commissioner
or Utilities Superintendent may require an air gap at the service connection to
protect the public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of
the Water Commissioner or Utilities Superintendent and is dependent on the
degree of hazard.
(1990 Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.066 APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of a
model or construction approved by the city or its authorized representative and
the Nebraska Department of Health. The Water Department shall provide a list of
devices that are recognized for cross-connection control and backflow
prevention by the Nebraska Department of Health.
(1990 Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.067 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the city or its authorized
representative. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer,
unless the city or its authorized representative agrees otherwise.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer's side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
the shutoff valve as close to the meter or shutoff valve as is reasonably
practical, and prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer's recommendations.
(1990 Code, § 3-129) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.068 INSPECTION TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall
be tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
city or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be done by an
approved certified tester, and the testing shall be at the expense of the
consumer, unless the city or its authorized representative agrees otherwise.
Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of the consumer and
subject to the approval of the city.
   (B)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city, its authorized representative, or a certified tester for the purpose of
inspection, testing, or maintenance. If entry is required into the premises,
the city's authorized representative or approved certified tester shall give
consumer notice setting forth a proposed date and time. If the consumer cannot
make the premises accessible on that date and time, the consumer shall contact
the city's authorized representative or certified tester to arrange another
date and time.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this policy are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced without delay at the
expense of the consumer.
   (D)   The consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. All records of inspections, tests, and repairs shall be provided
within 30 days to the city or its authorized representative.
   (E)   All backflow prevention devices shall have a tag showing the date of
installation, last inspection, test, or other maintenance.
(1990 Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.069 "SPECIAL CAUTION" THERMAL EXPANSION.
   When water is heated and stored in a consumer's water system, or a branch of
the system, that has been closed by the installation of a backflow prevention
device, or any other checking device, an auxiliary relief valve, or expansion
chamber, shall be installed to limit thermal expansion of the water being
heated to not more than 80 psi static (no-flow) pressure at any fixture on the
system.
(1990 Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.070 APPROVED METHODS OF FILLING TANKS/TANKER TRUCKS.
   Any water being introduced into a vessel, tank, tanker truck, and the like,
from any connection to the Public Potable Water System must be through an
approved backflow prevention device. The most effective and economical method
is by an approved air-gap separation between the water inlet and overflow level
of the vessel or tank. At no time shall a hose, either hand-held or otherwise
immersed in a vessel or tank, be an acceptable method for this type of
application.
(1990 Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.071 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall
state the nature of the order, compliance requirements, and a reasonable date
by which compliance must be met.
(1990 Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative; that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the decision or order of
the authorized representative has been made. The Governing Body of the city
shall hear all appeals and shall have the power and authority. when appealed
to, to modify the decisions or order of the authorized representative. Such a
decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party
may have at law or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(1990 Code, § 3-134) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.073 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this policy is not installed, tested, and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the city or its authorized representative,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this cross-connection ordinance to the
satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
(1990 Code, § 3-135) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
§ 52.074 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   (A)   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal
liability. The city shall hold harmless the authorized representative when
acting in good faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any
damage that may occur to any person or property as a result of any act or
omissions of the authorized representative in the discharge of his or her
duties hereunder.
   (B)   Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of the title shall be
defended by the city, or the city's insurance carrier, if any, through final
determination of such proceeding.
(1990 Code, § 3-136) (Ord. 413, passed 1-4-1994)
WATER EMERGENCY
§ 52.085 DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The city shall address any short-term water shortage problems
through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with
accompanying triggers, goals, and actions. Each stage is more stringent in
water use than the previous stage since there will be a greater deterioration
in water supply conditions. The Mayor is hereby authorized to implement the
appropriate conservation measures as set forth in this section, when any of the
conditions have been reached which would qualify for any of the specific
stages. The Mayor is given discretion to declare each particular stage as
deemed appropriate by the Mayor by reviewing the severity of the trigger
conditions and other additional information, and is further authorized to
implement conservation measures within the guidelines provided for each
particular stage.
   (B)   Stage One: Water Watch.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels;
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch; or
         (c)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,000,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
      (3)   Management actions. 
         (a)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         (b)   The city will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      (4)   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets, to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
   (C)   Stage Two: Water Warning.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels;
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch;
         (c)   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days; or
         (d)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,000,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Water supply will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (d)   City will curtail its water usage, including watering of city
grounds and washing of vehicles.
      (4)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under
Stage One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the Mayor:
         (a)   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on city
residents. Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days, even-
numbered houses on even days.
         (b)   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing, will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
         (d)   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used
in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water usage.
         (e)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (D)   Stage Three: Water Emergency.
      (1)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels;
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch;
         (c)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens;
         (d)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days; or
         (e)   Demand for one day is in excess of 1,000,000 gallons per day.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50%
and to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the city.
         (b)   The city will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency,
the status of the water supply, and further actions which need to be taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
         (d)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (e)   City will seek additional emergency supplies from other users,
the state or federal government.
      (5)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Mayor:
         (a)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
         (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (E)   Enforcement. In the event that any water consumer fails to comply with
the regulatory action taken by the city, then the Mayor may direct the
immediate discontinuance of water service to the location which is not in
compliance with the restrictions imposed. Water service may be resumed upon the
Mayor being provided adequate evidence to show that compliance has been
instituted and that compliance will continue under the restrictions imposed.
(Ord. 606, passed 6-6-2006)
WATER WELLS
§ 52.095 PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, WATER WELL shall mean any excavation
that is drilled, corralled, bored, washed, dug, driven, jetted, or otherwise
constructed for the purpose of exploring for ground water, monitoring ground
water, utilizing the geothermal property of the ground, or extracting water
from or injecting water into the underground water. WATER WELL shall not
include any excavation made for obtaining or prospecting for oils, natural gas,
minerals, or products mined or quarried or inserting media to repressure oil or
natural gas bearing formation. The intent of this section is to establish
control by the city over the location of future potential sources of
contamination within the city and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city's drinking water system, so as to prevent or minimize any hazards to the
safety of the city's drinking water.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct, or replace any of
the water wells in the city limits except for the purpose of geothermal
property of ground through closed loop geothermal systems, which must be
approved by permit.
   (C)   The construction of a geothermal closed loop within the corporate
limits or construction of a water well within one mile of the corporate limits
of the city shall not be started unless a permit approved by the Public Works
Commissioner has been obtained. In addition, the property owner must obtain a
zoning permit and comply with all setbacks and other zoning regulations related
to the construction of the geothermal closed loop.
   (D)   The City Council may consider permits to allow placement of water
wells within one mile of corporate limits and for closed-loop geothermal wells
as under criteria defined by the Nebraska regulations governing public water
supply systems (Title 179, NAC2) and Nebraska regulations governing water well
construction, pump installation and water well abandonment standards (Title
178, NAC12), as amended from time to time. Placement shall be allowed only
under the following conditions:
      (1)    The city shall refer the application to its engineer for
evaluation and report. The estimated cost of the engineer's fees must be paid
at the time of filing the application. Any additional costs which are
reasonably incurred by the engineer in making his or her examination and report
shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any previously paid estimated
costs.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall consider the engineer's report and any
additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching its decision on
whether to allow the placement of a water well, as defined in division (A)
above, the city must act to prevent all sources of possible or likely water
contamination.
         (b)   If the City Council approves the installation, it shall submit
the application together with the engineer's report to the Department of Health
of the State of Nebraska for a final approval or denial. No installation shall
be made without the approval of both the City Council and the Department of
Health of the State of Nebraska.
   (E)   Water wells in existence and use shall continue to be permitted unless
such continued existence or use presents a hazard to the quality of the
drinking water available for public use to the city. The owner of any water
well shall have the burden of establishing the existence and use of the well at
the time of the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-6-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
§ 52.105 WELLHEAD PROTECTION BOUNDARY, ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city adopts as wellhead protection boundary as part of the areas
within the boundary or as a Groundwater Protection Overlay District and the
official zoning may will be changed to reflect this amendment.
   (B)   The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor attested by the City Clerk and bearing the seal of the city under the
following words:
      "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces
the Official Zoning Map previously adopted by the City of Loup City, Nebraska."
(Ord. 556, passed 8-6-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning map adopted, see §
151.01
§ 52.106 WELLHEAD PROTECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. Words or phrases used in this section shall be
interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this section its most reasonable application. Definitions set
forth in Sherman County Zoning Regulations should be used when there exists
uncertainty in the interpretation of the rules and regulations established by
this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, install, construct or
replace any of the following structures or conduct any of the following
activities within the Wellhead Protection Area, except as may be provided
herein. Specifically:
      (1)   All water wells;
      (2)   Non-potable water well;
      (3)   Sewage lagoon;
      (4)   Sanitary landfill;
      (5)   Pit toilet;
      (6)   Chemical or petroleum storage;
      (7)   Lawn and garden recycling compost;
      (8)   Fertilizer and pesticide storage;
      (9)   Septic tank (GPD exceeding 1,000);
      (10)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (11)   Sewage wet well;
      (12)   Absorption or disposal field for waste;
      (13)   Cesspool (illegal anywhere);
      (14)   Dump;
      (15)   Livestock confinement facilities/operation;
      (16)   Livestock corral;
      (17)   Septic tank;
      (18)   Sanitary sewer connection;
      (19)   Sanitary sewer manhole;
      (20)   Sanitary sewer line;
      (21)   Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight).
   (C)   The placing, installing, constructing or replacing of any structure or
activity as set forth in division (B), hereinafter termed "wellhead structure
or activity" within the Wellhead Protection Area shall not be permitted after
the effective date of this section unless a permit approved by the Wellhead
Protection Administrator has been obtained. The owner of any wellhead structure
or activity shall have the burden of establishing the existence and use of the
wellhead structure or activity at the time of the effective date of this
section.
   (D)   (1)   No permit shall be issued by the Wellhead Protection
Administrator within the following setback distance from any City of Loup City
municipal water well:
Activity Minimum Distance From Public Water Supply (measured in feet)
Activity                                Minimum Distance From Public Water
                                        Supply (measured in feet)
All water wells                         1,000
Non-potable water well                  1,000
Sewage lagoon                           1,000
Sanitary landfill                       1,000
Pit toilet                              1,000
Chemical or petroleum storage           1,000
Lawn and garden recycling compost       1,000
Fertilizer and pesticide storage        1,000
Septic tank (GPD exceeding 1,000)       1,000
Sewage treatment plant                  500
Sewage wet well                         500
Absorption or disposal field for waste  500
Cesspool (illegal anywhere)             500
Dump                                    500
Livestock confinement facilities/       500
operation
Livestock corral                        500
Septic tank                             500
Sanitary sewer connection               100
Sanitary sewer manhole                  100
Sanitary sewer line                     50
Sanitary sewer line - permanently water 10
tight
 
      (2)   Any activity described above located within the defined setback
distance shall be considered prima facie a hazard to the quality of the
municipal water supply.
   (E)   The City Council of the City of Loup City, Nebraska shall be
responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the rules and regulations
established by this section and shall consider all applications filed pursuant
hereto. All applications shall be approved or rejected by roll call vote. The
City Council shall designate one of its employees as Wellhead Protection
Administrator, which employee shall be charged with administration of the rules
and regulations.
   (F)   Any wellhead structure or activity not prohibited by division (D)
above, shall be allowed upon determination by the City Council that such
activity does not constitute a hazard or threat to the quality of the municipal
water supply and upon issuance of a permit by the Wellhead Protection
Administrator.
   (G)   Prior to placing, installing, constructing, expanding or replacing any
wellhead structure or activity, the owner of the real estate upon which the
structure or activity is proposed shall file with the Wellhead Protection
Administrator an application for a wellhead structure or activity permit. The
application shall be on a form furnished by the Wellhead Protection
Administrator and shall include supporting information indicating why approval
would not adversely impact the city's municipal water supply. The Wellhead
Protection Administrator shall thereafter submit the application to the City
Council for consideration. Prior to acting upon such application, the City
Council may seek an engineering report, recommendations of the Lower Loup
Natural District, the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality or any other
party or agency in evaluating the impact of the proposed structure or activity
on the municipal water supply. A permit shall be issued if the City Council
determines that the structure or activity is unlikely to contaminate or pollute
the water supply.
   (H)   Wellhead structures or activities in existence and use in the Wellhead
Protection Area as of the effective date of this section shall continue to be
permitted unless such continued existence or use, in the opinion of the City
Council of the City of Loup City, presents a hazard to the quality of the
municipal water supply. If the City Council determines that an existing
wellhead structure or activity presents a hazard, the City Council shall
authorize the Wellhead Protection Administrator to notify the owner of the
structure or activity to cease and desist the structure or activity. If the
owner of the wellhead structure or activity desires to continue operation of
the structure or activity, the owner may seek to procure a permit pursuant to
this section. If the owner does not cease and desist pursuant to such notice,
the Wellhead Protection Administrator may proceed pursuant to division (I) of
this section against the owner and/or the wellhead structure or activity.
   (I)   Any person found violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500. The continuation of a violation of this
section shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 house of such
continued violation. In addition the city may obtain injunctive relief and sue
for damages and remediation, and pursue any other remedy available to it under
the laws of the State of Nebraska or other authority having jurisdiction over
such matters.
(Ord. 713, passed 2-4-2014)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Definition of terms
   
53.003   User charge system
   
53.004   Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund
   
53.005   Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund; transfer of funds
   
53.006   User charge system; precedence
   
53.007   Application for permit
   
53.008   Sewer contract
   
53.009   Service contracts
   
53.010   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Public Sewers Required
   
53.020   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.021   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.022   Cesspools, privies, and septic tanks prohibited
   
53.023   Mandatory hookup
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
53.035   When applicable
   
53.036   Permit required
   
53.037   Permit, when effective; inspections
   
53.038   Specifications
   
53.039   Public sewer available
   
53.040   Mandatory abandonment
   
53.041   Maintenance
   
53.042   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.055   Municipal sewer system; repairs and replacement
   
53.056   Permit required
   
53.057   Classification; permit application
   
53.058   Responsibility for expense
   
53.059   Single premises
   
53.060   Use of existing sewers
   
53.061   Construction; conformance to construction codes
   
53.062   Elevation
   
53.063   Unlawful connection
   
53.064   Connection; compliance with codes
   
53.065   Connection; inspection
   
53.066   Excavations; barricades; restoration
   
53.067   Excavations; inspections
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
53.080   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
53.081   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
53.082   Specific prohibitions as determined by Sewer Commissioner
   
53.083   Rejection, pretreatment, control or discharge rate or use fee
surcharge
   
53.084   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.085   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.086   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
53.087   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
53.088   Special exceptions permitted with surcharge
Compliance; Enforcement
   
53.100   Inspections generally
   
53.101   Inspections; injury liability
   
53.102   Inspections; easements
   
53.103   Violation; notice
   
53.104   Violation; liability
   
53.105   Municipal Sewer Department; municipal powers
Fees and Charges
   
53.115   Application and tap fees; installation expense for licensed plumber
   
53.116   Sewer use fees
   
53.117   User charges
   
53.118   Minimum rates
   
53.119   Wastewater surcharge
   
53.120   Toxic pollutant surcharges
   
53.121   Rates
   
53.122   Bills
   
53.123   Collection of sewer use fees
   
53.124   User charge review
   
53.125   Annual rate notification
   
53.126   Surcharges
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
    It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city's
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
(1990 Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.002 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMISSIONER. The Sewer Commissioner of the City of Loup City, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LOCAL VENTING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a room
or fixture.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive; the term SHALL is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Loup City, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 350
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the PARTS PER MILLION value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designated and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLAN. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE.  Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage,
and Industrial Waste, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Sewer Commissioner of the City of Loup City, or his or
her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems. individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste
stack.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the City of Loup City or furnished and/or installed by a user and
approved by the City of Loup City.
(1990 Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.003 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs
of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the treatment
works which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works shall be
established by this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.004 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in §§
53.116 through
53.121 shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
   (A)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying operation
and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works (Operation
and Maintenance Account); and
   (B)   An account designated for the specific purposes of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made at least annually
from the operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue in the amount of
$1,613 annually.
(1990 Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992; Ord. 401, passed 4-6-1993)
§ 53.005 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT FUND; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and the
replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Moneys which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred moneys will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
(1990 Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.006 USER CHARGE SYSTEM; PRECEDENCE.
   All parties understand that the user charge system takes precedence over any
terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between the city and users
(including industrial users, special districts, other municipalities, or
federal agencies or installations) which are inconsistent with the requirements
of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Water Quality Act and the corresponding regulations.
(1990 Code, § 3-216) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.007 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the Sewer Commissioner. The Commissioner may require
any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she deems
necessary, subject to the review of the Governing Body. Sewer service may not
be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the Sewer
Commissioner. The Department shall not supply sewer service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the Governing
Body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges
shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(1990 Code, § 3-217) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.008 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of
the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Sewer Commissioner, or his or her
agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to the
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
Commissioner or his or her agent.
(1990 Code, § 3-218) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.009 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner who shall cause the sewer service
to be shut off from the premises. If the customer should fail to give notice,
he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the official in charge
of sewers is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(1990 Code, § 3-219) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.010 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(1990 Code, § 3-256) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.020 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1990 Code, § 3-221) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the City of
Loup City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 3-222) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1990 Code, § 3-223) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.023 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the municipality and abutting on
any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(1990 Code, § 3-224) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 53.035 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   When a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.023, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 3-225) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.036 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed. The permit and inspection fees shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1990 Code, § 3-226) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.037 PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(1990 Code, § 3-227) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.038 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control's
Title 124 Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of
Septic Tank Systems.
(1990 Code, § 3-228) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.039 PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private sewer disposable system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools,
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
(1990 Code, § 3-229) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.040 MANDATORY ABANDONMENT.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage system shall be abandoned in
accordance with the Nebraska Department of Environmental Control's Title 124
Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic Tank
Systems.
(1990 Code, § 3-232) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.041 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 3-230) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.042 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(1990 Code, § 3-231) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.055 MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Sewer
Commissioner may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the connection.
(1990 Code, § 3-237) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.056 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permission from the Superintendent.
(1990 Code, § 3-233) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed. These rates shall be on file at the office of the City
Clerk available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 3-234) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Application fees, see §
53.115
§ 53.058 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1990 Code, § 3-235) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.059 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer; but the municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
(1990 Code, § 3-238) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.060 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 3-239) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.061 CONSTRUCTION; CONFORMANCE TO CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(1990 Code, § 3-240) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.062 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(1990 Code, § 3-241) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.063 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1990 Code, § 3-242) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.064 CONNECTION; COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
(1990 Code, § 3-243) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.065 CONNECTION; INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(1990 Code, § 3-244) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.066 EXCAVATIONS; BARRICADES; RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 3-245) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.067 EXCAVATIONS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Sewer Commissioner shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Sewer Commissioner. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are complete and before the pipe is covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is
the customer's responsibility to notify the Sewer Commissioner at the time the
work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the
supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
specifications for such installation prescribed by the Sewer Commissioner;
provided, that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed
and approved by the Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 3-246) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 53.080 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(1990 Code, § 3-247) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, mild containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1990 Code, § 3-248) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.082 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SEWER COMMISSIONER,
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one (100) mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150ºF (0 and
65ºC);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but
not limited to fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality's consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
the proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
(1990 Code, § 3-249) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.083 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OR DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.082 and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.088.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1990 Code, § 3-250) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.084 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Commissioner. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed
by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
(1990 Code, § 3-251) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.085 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1990 Code, § 3-252) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.086 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1990 Code, § 3-253) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.087 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always. BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(1990 Code, § 3-254) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.088 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED WITH SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1990 Code, § 3-255) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
COMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.100 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(1990 Code, § 3-257) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.101 INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.100 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
municipality shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the municipality's employees, and the municipality shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required by §
53.086.
(1990 Code, § 3-258) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.102 INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement, for the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1990 Code, § 3-259) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.103 VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except §
53.010 shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(1990 Code, § 3-260) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.104 VIOLATION; LIABILITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
municipality by reason of the violation.
(1990 Code, § 3-263) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.105 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges, industrial cost recovery charge, and sewer use regulations on all
existing or future users of the system, whether located inside or outside the
municipal limits.
(1990 Code, § 3-261) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 53.115 APPLICATION AND TAP FEES; INSTALLATION EXPENSE FOR LICENSED PLUMBER.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Sewer Commissioner a tap fee of $75 which compensates the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The Sewer Commissioner, in his or her discretion, may direct
the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer shall
then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required as well
as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(1990 Code, § 3-236) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.116 SEWER USE FEES.
   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on his or
her use of the treatment works as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to
the city.
(1990 Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.117 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges will be based on
average monthly water usage during the months of December, January, and
February. If a residential contributor has not established a December, January,
and February average, his or her monthly user charge shall be the median charge
of all other residential contributors.
   (B)   For industrial and commercial contributors, user charges shall be
based on water used during the current month. If a commercial or industrial
contributor has a consumptive use of water or in some other manner uses water
which is not returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge for
that contributor may be based on wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s)
installed and maintained at the contributor's expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the city.
(1990 Code, § 3-207) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.118 MINIMUM RATES.
   Effective on the billing date on or after November 1, 2024, to be made to
users of wastewater supplied by the City of Loup City Sewer Department of the
City of Loup City, Nebraska, the rates charged by the City Sewer Department
shall be as follows:
 
Type and Usage                   Rate
Customer charge, all residential $21/month
Customer charge, all commercial  $22/month
Usage, per 1,000 gallons         $2
 
(1990 Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992; Ord. 549, passed 4-2-2002;
Ord. 567, passed 3-4-2003; Ord. 601, passed 12-6-2005; Ord. 624, passed 5-6-
2008; Ord. 840, passed 6-4-2019; Ord. 937, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 53.119 WASTEWATER SURCHARGE.
   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of which is
greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal user
charge will be collected for such increased cost. The charge to each such user
shall be as determined by the responsible plant operating personnel and
approved by the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.120 TOXIC POLLUTANT SURCHARGES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city's treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
the increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by the
responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.121 RATES.
   The user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users,
regardless of their location in the city's treatment works.
(1990 Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.122 BILLS.
   All users shall be billed monthly on the first of the month. Bills shall be
due and payable by the tenth day of the month. Any payment not received within
ten days after the billing is made shall be delinquent.
(1990 Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.123 COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added to each
delinquent bill for each ten days of delinquency. When any bill is 30 days in
default, rendition of water and/or sewer service to such premises shall be
discontinued until the bill is paid following due notice and opportunity for
hearing. All penalties and procedures concerning delinquent accounts with the
Municipal Water Department shall also be applicable to delinquent accounts with
the Municipal Sewer Department.
(1990 Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Water rates, bills, see §§
52.041 and
52.042
§ 53.124 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The city will review the user charge system at least every two years and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the cost of operation and maintenance including
replacement and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement costs among
users and user classes.
(1990 Code, § 3-214) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.125 ANNUAL RATE NOTIFICATION.
   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works.
(1990 Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.126 SURCHARGES.
   In addition to other elements of the total user charge system in §§
53.118 and
53.120, the ordinance on file with the City Clerk shall provide for the
following surcharges:
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS, and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant (see Appendix
B of 40 C.F.R. § 35.900).
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from the discharge.
(1990 Code, § 3-220) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
53.103 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1990 Code, § 3-262) (Ord. 389, passed 11-17-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
         
73.   GOLF CARS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.001   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
70.002   Accident; driver's duties
   
70.003   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection
system
   
70.004   Definitions
   
70.005   Traffic regulations; general authority
Municipal Traffic Regulations
   
70.015   Truck routes
   
70.016   Traffic lanes; designation
   
70.017   Arterial streets; designation
   
70.018   Turning; U-turns
   
70.019   Turning; hand signals
   
70.020   Turning; generally
   
70.021   Turning; cautious
   
70.022   Right-of-way
   
70.023   Right-of-way; slow-moving vehicles
   
70.024   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
70.025   Stops; crossing sidewalks
   
70.026   Crosswalks
   
70.027   Speed limits
Prohibitions
   
70.035   Littering
   
70.036   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.037   Engine braking
Signs and Devices
   
70.045   Signs, signals
   
70.046   Stop signs
   
70.047   Defacing or interfering with signs, traffic-control devices, traffic
surveillance devices
   
70.048   Defacing or interfering with signs
   
70.049   Signs; unauthorized display
School Zones
   
70.060   Speed near schools
   
70.061   School crossing zones; designation
   
70.062   School crossing zones; overtaking and passing
Enforcement
   
70.075   Emergency regulations
   
70.076   Police; enforcement
   
70.077   Police; refusal to obey
   
70.078   Police; traffic officers
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.001 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having first registered the same in accordance with Neb.
RS Chapter 60, Article 3, except as provided in this section. A person may
operate a motor vehicle without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days
from the date of purchase. Upon registration, the vehicle shall have the
required number plates displayed upon the vehicle in the manner and places
provided for by Neb. RS 60-323.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator's license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or public highway
during the period that his or her operator's license has been revoked or
canceled.
(1990 Code, § 5-222) (Ord. 378, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.002 ACCIDENT; DRIVER'S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, the
driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway,
private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number, and operator's
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop the vehicle and leave in
a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) of this section.
In addition, the driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the registration number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator's license to the person struck or the
driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in the accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying of the person to a physician or surgeon for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or is
requested by the injured person.
(Ord. 574, passed 6-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-696, 60-697
§ 70.003 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children under the age of five and weighing less than 40
pounds being transported in the vehicle use a child passenger restraint system
of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as of July 10, 1990, and
which is correctly installed in the vehicle; and
         (b)   All children under the age of 16 and weighing 40 or more pounds
being transported in the vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   This division shall apply to every motor vehicle which is equipped
with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with restraint
systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208 except taxicabs,
mopeds, motorcycles, and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a
1963 year model or earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection
system.
   (B)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (A)(1) of this section shall
be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on
his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for the waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A)(1) of this section when operating the
authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (D)   Enforcement of division (A)(1)(b) of this section shall be
accomplished only as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has
been cited or charged with a violation or some other offense.
(1990 Code, § 5-225) (Ord. 536, passed 6-5-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267(1), 60-6,267(2), 60-6,267
(3), 60-6,268(3)
§ 70.004 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapters 39 and
60, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated
statute, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(1990 Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.005 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices,
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the Council or its designated representative
or in a place, time or manner which has been prohibited by the Council shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Council may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in any manner so as to
endanger the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the
natural features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Ord. 929, passed 1-9-2024)
MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.015 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon
as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The Governing Body
shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the streets
so designated as truck routes.
(1990 Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,681
§ 70.016 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(1990 Code, § 5-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.017 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when the street has been so designated.
(1990 Code, § 5-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.018 TURNING; U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(1990 Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,160
§ 70.019 TURNING; HAND SIGNALS.
   (A)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of
the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of
Roads.
   (B)   The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner:
      (1)   Stop or decreased speed, hand and arm extended downward;
      (2)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally; and
      (3)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
(1990 Code, § 5-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,161 through 60-6,163
§ 70.020 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach the intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side
of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible
to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach the center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning the vehicle to the left.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall
mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one
another.
(1990 Code, § 5-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,159
§ 70.021 TURNING; CAUTIOUS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of the vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make the movement
in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the operator
shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever the
operation of any other vehicle may be affected by this movement, he or she
shall give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
or her intention to make the movement.
(1990 Code, § 5-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,109, 60-6,161
§ 70.022 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of the vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices.
   (B)   Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(1990 Code, § 5-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 70.023 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on the
right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street.
(1990 Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,133
§ 70.024 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, the
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, the vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals.
(1990 Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,151
§ 70.025 STOPS; CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All vehicles before crossing a sidewalk, emerging from a garage,
alley, filling station, or other place within the "congested district," shall
come to a complete stop, and after giving sufficient warning shall proceed
slowly and with extreme caution while crossing the sidewalk, or leaving the
garage, alley, filling station, or other place.
   (B)   The term SLOWLY shall be construed to mean such rate of speed as is
reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the condition of the street
and traffic thereon.
(1990 Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,149
§ 70.026 CROSSWALKS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(1990 Code, § 5-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.027 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other
place within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 miles per
hour, except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   In the business district the rate of speed shall be 20 miles per
hour;
      (2)   In residential areas the rate of speed shall be 25 miles per hour;
and
      (3)   In school zones the rate of speeds shall be in accordance with §
70.060.
   (B)   Where the Council determines that traffic and road conditions warrant,
the speed limit may be increased or decreased by resolution.
   (C)   Substantial metal markers and signs shall be erected and maintained
along any and all stretches of roadway which have been so designated by the
Council. The Council shall cause a marker to be placed indicating the point at
which the speed limit changes.
(1990 Code, § 5-219) (Ord. 756, passed 8-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 70.035 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(1990 Code, § 5-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.036 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of or
containing glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of the glass, or the person
responsible for the breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be
removed, from the street.
(1990 Code, § 5-216) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.037 ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be and hereby is determined unlawful for any person in any part of
the city to make, or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device that converts a power producing engine into a power-absorbing
air compressor which is commonly used for the purpose of assisting braking on
any semi-tractor. Proper notice shall be posted at city limits, including
highways under its jurisdiction, by the city notifying the public of such
prohibition.
(Ord. 639, passed 7-7-2009)
SIGNS AND DEVICES
§ 70.045 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where the sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when the regulation or
prohibition shall be effective.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the regulation, or prohibition.
(1990 Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.046 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause the
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
(1990 Code, § 5-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.047 DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC
SURVEILLANCE DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic-control device, or traffic-control surveillance device.
(1990 Code, § 5-221) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129, 60-6,130
§ 70.048 DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1990 Code, § 5-217) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129
§ 70.049 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(1990 Code, § 5-218) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,127
SCHOOL ZONES
§ 70.060 SPEED NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of 15 miles per
hour past the premises.
   (B)   School premises shall include all public school buildings and the CNCS
preschool building.
(1990 Code, § 5-220) (Ord. 757, passed 8-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 70.061 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the Governing Body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(1990 Code, § 5-223) (Ord. 488, passed 9-15-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 70.062 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the Governing Body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(1990 Code, § 5-224) (Ord. 489, passed 9-15-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,134.01
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.075 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(1990 Code, § 5-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.076 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(1990 Code, § 5-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,683
§ 70.077 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(1990 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.078 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Governing Body or the Municipal Police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection.
(1990 Code, § 5-304)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,213, 60-6,683
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Generally
   
71.02   Parking; designation
   
71.03   Parking areas
   
71.04   Obstructing alley
   
71.05   Parking in alleys
   
71.06   Business district unloading
   
71.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
71.08   Schools
   
71.09   Street intersections
   
71.10   Obstructing traffic
   
71.11   Curb parking
   
71.12   Display or repair
   
71.13   Time limit; authority and maximum
   
71.14   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
71.15   Snow removal
Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
71.32   Designation of off-street parking areas
   
71.33   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.34   Motor vehicle permit issuance; renewal
   
71.35   Permits; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
71.36   Permits; period valid; renewal of temporary permits; fee
   
71.37   Permits nontransferable; violation; suspension
   
71.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the Governing Body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within the stalls.
(1990 Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167
§ 71.02 PARKING; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(1990 Code, § 5-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167
§ 71.03 PARKING AREAS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(1990 Code, § 5-403) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(1990 Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.05 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(1990 Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.06 BUSINESS DISTRICT UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall length of
more than 20 feet to stop or park any the vehicle on a street which the
Governing Body has designated to be within the business district, except to
load or unload, and then only when loading or unloading in an alley is
impossible. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed what
is reasonably necessary to load or unload. It shall be unlawful for the
operator of any truck, regardless of length, to park the vehicle within a
street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private driveway, or on a
sidewalk. The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
adjoining, or adjacent to, the business district; and when such parking areas
are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to use these parking
areas for all parking purposes. No truck, including oil tankers, shall park, or
stop for any period of time, within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading, the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business except in the area, or areas,
provided for by the Governing Body by resolution.
(1990 Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.07 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(1990 Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 71.08 SCHOOLS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping
except for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the
curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, or school
building, and those curbs adjacent to the entrance of the school house, or
school building, shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(1990 Code, § 5-408)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.09 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(1990 Code, § 5-409) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 71.10 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where the stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(1990 Code, § 5-410) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.11 CURB PARKING.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
the street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the Governing Body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(1990 Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 71.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, excepting
in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles
or vehicles of any description.
(1990 Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.13 TIME LIMIT; AUTHORITY AND MAXIMUM.
   (A)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a
time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by the resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district for a period of time longer
than fixed in the resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 5-414)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on a public street
in the residential area for over 72 consecutive hours; or in a controlled
public parking area for more than 24 consecutive hours, provided that the
parking of such vehicles, trailers, implement, or equipment shall not conflict
with the provisions of any other section of this code.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing on a
public street in a residential area of the city any mobile home, travel
trailer, pontoon, pontoon trailer, boat, boat trailer, utility trailer, pickup
camper, horse trailer, or any farm or construction machinery of any kind upon
the public streets in the residential area of the city, except for the purposes
of loading or unloading, and then only for the length of time necessary to load
or unload the vehicle, trailer or machinery; provided, however, the enforcement
of this section shall be suspended during the period from April 1 to September
30 of each year if the vehicle, trailer or machinery is not parked for over 72
consecutive hours and does not violate any other provision of the traffic
regulations of the city and does not create a traffic hazard due to its size or
obstruct the view of motorists or pedestrians.
(Ord. 560, passed 10-8-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.14 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees, which fees shall be set by resolution. The city shall pay the
appropriate fees for towing and storage prior to storing the vehicle and shall
be entitled to retain the vehicle until repossession by the owner and payment
of all fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(1990 Code, § 5-415) (Ord. 635, passed 6-2-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,165
§ 71.15 SNOW REMOVAL.
   The City Council may, by rules and regulations, prohibit the parking and
stopping of vehicles in such streets or districts as they may designate for the
purpose of enabling the city Street Department to expeditiously remove the snow
from the streets; and the parking and stopping of any vehicle in any street,
streets, or district during the periods of time set forth in such rules and
regulations issued shall constitute a violation of this section. In addition to
any penalty assessed for the violation of this section, any vehicle parked or
left standing in violation of this section or the provisions of any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto may be impounded as elsewhere provided in
this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 5-416)
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON.   
      (1)   Any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which
limits personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more
than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic,
orthotic, or other assistant device; any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems; any individual who has a cardiac
condition to the extent that his or her functional limitations are classified
in severity as being Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association; and any individual who has permanently lost all or
substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
      (2)   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON means any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such
manner for no longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use, or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.02) (Ord. 578, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1738, 18-1741.01
§ 71.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Governing Body may designate parking spaces, including
access aisles, for the exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display the permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle's rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the Governing Body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to the sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(1990 Code, § 5-413) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 507, passed 10-5-1999;
Ord. 579, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 71.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor vehicles
display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display the permit. This designation shall be made by posting aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-
1737.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.01) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 580, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.33 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting the holder
to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when
the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.34, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.03) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 543, passed 7-3-2001;
Ord. 581, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738
§ 71.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces or
access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. This parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and the person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it
is parked in the designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the City Clerk
by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk
that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.33, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.04) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 582, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738.01
§ 71.35 PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to the person or for the motor vehicle, and
the permit has been suspended pursuant to §
71.37. At the expiration of the suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. The duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk
or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.05) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 583, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1739
§ 71.36 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS; FEE.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.06) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 438, passed 3-7-1995;
Ord. 584, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 71.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of the person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of the permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of the traffic
code, as set forth in §
71.99. At the expiration of the six-month period, a suspended permit may be
renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.07) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 585, passed 7-1-2003)
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 71.38 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access
aisles, designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from the stall or space,
including access aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area
so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, or 18-
1741.06. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation and shall be guilty and
subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of the
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.08) (Ord. 379, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 586, passed 7-1-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
71.37 shall constitute a handicapped parking infraction and shall be cause for
suspension of the permit for a period of six months and imposition of the
penalty provided for violation of the traffic code, as set forth in §
71.99. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250
which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped
parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to
the court.
(1990 Code, § 5-413.07) (Ord. 585, passed 7-1-2003)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain and Utility-Type Vehicles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation
   
72.03   Light requirement
   
72.04   Equipment requirement
   
72.05   Prohibitions
   
72.06   Competition
   
72.07   Accident report
   
72.08   Enforcement
 
   
72.99   Penalty
ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. 
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more non-highway tires; and
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
      (2)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES which have been modified or retrofitted with
after- market parts to include additional equipment not required by §§
72.03 and
72.04 of this subchapter shall not be required to be registered under the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 74 inches in width or less;
         (b)   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
         (d)   Travels on four or more non-highway tires; and
         (e)   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf cart vehicles or low-
speed vehicles.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES which have been modified or retrofitted with
after-market parts to include additional equipment not required by §§
72.03 and
72.04 of this subchapter shall not be required to be registered under the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, Neb. RS 60- 301.
(1990 Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011; Ord. 736, passed 11-4-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 72.02 OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any all-terrain or
utility vehicle on the city streets or alleys in the city until the owner has
demonstrated proof of insurance to the City Clerk and obtained an insurance
decal for each vehicle for the current year. The City Clerk will issue a decal
for the current year that must be either on the person of the individual
driving the vehicle or in or on the vehicle itself at all times it is on a city
street or alley. The city will charge a fee of $35 for the issuance of the
first permit and $15 for each additional permit. The additional permit will be
allowed for any additional all-terrain or utility vehicle on the insurance
policy of the person registering. The certificate shall be an annual permit
from January 1 through December 31 of each year. The operator shall have until
February l of each year to renew the certificate.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. Divisions (C), (E) and (F) of this section
authorize and apply to operation of all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
only on streets or highways other than a controlled-access highway with more
than two marked traffic lanes. An all-terrain or utility-type vehicle may be
operated in accordance with the operating requirements of division (C) below
within the corporate limits of a city.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated in
accordance with the operating requirements of division (B) of this section when
such operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and sunset. Any person
operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle as authorized in
division (B) of this section shall have a valid Class O operator's license or a
farm permit, as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, shall have liability insurance
coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle while operating
the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle on a street or highway, and
shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour. The
person operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall
provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such
proof within five days of such a request. When operating an all-terrain vehicle
or utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (B) of this section, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with division (C) of this section on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska, any department, board or
commission of the state or the City of Loup City.
   (E)   Subject to division (B) of this section, the crossing of a highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle without
complying with division (C) of this section only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (F)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated outside
the corporate limits of the municipality by electric utility personnel within
the course of their employment in accordance with the operation requirements of
division (C) of this section, except that the operation of the vehicle pursuant
to this division need not be limited to the hours between sunrise and sunset.
(1990 Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 616, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011;
Ord. 761, passed 11-3-2015; Ord. 934, passed 6-4-2024) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 72.03 LIGHT REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall display a lighted
headlight and taillight during the period of time from sunset to sunrise and at
any time when visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions.
(1990 Code, § 5-503) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,357
§ 72.04 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(1990 Code, § 5-504) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 72.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass, or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with an exhaust
system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events.
(1990 Code, § 5-505) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 72.06 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted
from §§
72.03 to
72.05 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(1990 Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 72.07 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-
699.
(1990 Code, § 5-507) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 72.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission, shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
72.02 to
72.07 of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
72.02 to
72.07 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapters 39 and 60 may be
punished under the penalty provisions of that chapter.
(1990 Code, § 5-508) (Ord. 669, passed 11-8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
CHAPTER 73: GOLF CARS
Section
   
73.01   Operation
   
73.02   Safety equipment
   
73.03   License
   
73.04   Insurance
   
73.05   Registration
   
73.06   Accident report
   
73.07   Enforcement
   
   
73.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,381
§ 73.01 OPERATION.
   The operation of golf cars within the corporate limits shall be permitted
only in accordance with the provisions contained herein:
   (A)   The operation of golf cars shall be subject to all traffic regulations
governing the movement of vehicles on a public roadway, and golf car operators
shall obey all provisions of Neb. RS 60-601 through 60-6,383, Rules of the
Road, and Chapters
70 and
71 of the Loup City Municipal Code, Traffic and Parking Regulations, as they
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Golf cars shall operate on the furthest right-hand lane of traffic,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles, and shall drive in single file.
   (C)   Golf cars may not be operated or parked on any sidewalk, right-of-way,
trail, or bike lane.
      (1)   Operation of golf cars is permitted only on streets with a speed
limit of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (2)   The operator of a golf car may cross over a state or federal
highway or other prohibited street only under the following conditions:
         (a)   The crossing shall be made only at a designated intersection
with an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the highway or prohibited street;
         (b)   The crossing shall be made only after the golf car is brought to
a complete stop; and
         (c)   The golf car has yielded the right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard.
   (D)   Golf cars shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 20 miles per hour
or the posted speed limit, whichever is less.
   (E)   Operation of golf cars shall be permitted between sunrise and sunset.
   (F)   Operators of golf cars must have a valid Class O operator's license.
   (G)   The maximum number of occupants in a golf car shall not exceed four
people or the number of factory-designed seats installed in the golf car,
whichever is less. All occupants shall remain seated within the vehicle at all
times while the golf car is in motion.
(Ord. 933, 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   All golf cars operated within the City of Loup City shall be equipped with
the following safety equipment:
   (A)   A day-glow bicycle safety flag with an area not less than 30 square
inches, attached to the rear of the golf car vehicle and standing a minimum of
five feet above ground level;
   (B)   A muffler if the golf car is powered by a gasoline engine; and
   (C)   A rearview and/or sideview mirror.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 LICENSE.
   Any person operating a golf car as authorized herein shall have a valid
Class O operator’s license and shall provide proof of said license upon request
of a peace officer.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any owner of a golf car being operated as authorized herein shall have
liability insurance coverage for the golf car vehicle. The liability insurance
coverage shall be subject to limits, exclusive of interest and costs, as
follows:
      (1)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death
of one person in any one accident and, subject to such limit for one person;
      (2)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death of two
or more persons in any one accident; and
      (3)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident.
   (B)   Any individual operating a golf car shall provide proof of insurance
immediately upon request of a peace officer.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 REGISTRATION.
   Registration with the City of Loup City is required before a golf car may be
operated on any public roadway within the city limits.
   (A)   A registration application shall be submitted annually to the City of
Loup City Clerk, and shall require the following:
      (1)   The completed application;
      (2)   The annual registration fee of $35 for the first permit and $15 for
each additional permit on the same insurance policy of the person registering.
Said fee shall be waived parades and by organizers and volunteers during
approved public celebrations like Polish Days;
      (3)   A copy of the owner's valid Class O operator's license; and
      (4)   Proof of insurance as required by this chapter specifically listing
the vehicle, referenced by year, make, model and serial number.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application and necessary documentation, the City
Clerk shall issue a City of Loup City registration to the owner of the golf car
vehicle. Proof of registration shall be prominently displayed on the rear of
the golf car vehicle in a location visible to traffic at all times.
   (C)   Registrations shall be valid from January 1 through December 31.
Registration fees are not prorated and are nonrefundable and nontransferable.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of the golf car vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission, shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
73.01 to
73.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
73.01 through
73.06 that is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapters 39 and 60 may be punished
under the penalty provisions of those chapters.
(Ord. 933, passed 5-13-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   NUISANCES, ENVIRONMENT; HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS AND PREVENTION
         
93.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
         
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Animals banned
   
90.002   Unlawful to permit animals to run at large
   
90.003   Special permit
   
90.004   Unusual animals
   
90.005   Enclosures
   
90.006   Rabies; impoundment
   
90.007   Killing of animals by authorities
   
90.008   Abandonment, neglect, cruelty
   
90.009   Transient owner exemption
   
90.010   Fowl; written permission from adjoining property owner to keep fowl
   
90.011   Fowl; roosters prohibited
   
90.012   Fowl; running at large
Dogs
   
90.020   Definitions
   
90.021   Liability for damages; allowing dog to injure or destroy property
unlawful
   
90.022   Dog waste
   
90.023   Live traps
   
90.024   Licensing; certificate or rabies vaccination required; license tax;
collar or harness required; license tag required
   
90.025   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs and service dogs; exempt from license tax
   
90.026   Presumption of age
   
90.027   Impounding
   
90.028   Maintenance of control by owner, keeper, harborer; impoundment; fees
   
90.029   Vicious dogs; unlawful to not be held by chain; Mayor may direct dogs
be restrained or confined
   
90.030   Rabies; impoundment
   
90.031   Bitten by rabid animal; disposition
   
90.032   Continuous barking, howling and the like
   
90.033   Killing, poisoning and injuring unlawful
   
90.034   Collection of fees, fines, penalties and funding
   
90.035   License fees
   
90.036   Removal of tags
   
90.037   Number of animals on premises limited
   
90.038   Interference with police
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.050   Definitions
   
90.051   Restraint
   
90.052   Confinement
   
90.053   Failure to comply
Rottweilers, Pit Bulls, and Doberman Pinschers
   
90.065   Keeping prohibited
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 ANIMALS BANNED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, within the
corporate limits of the city, any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or any
other livestock. The ban shall not apply to animals kept outside the city
limits but within the area within one mile of the corporate limits in the
district zoned residential, commercial or industrial with proper permit as
outlined in §
90.003.
(1990 Code, § 6-206) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 788, passed 5-3-2016)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.002 UNLAWFUL TO PERMIT ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner, keeper or harborer of
any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or
any other fowl or livestock, or for any person having the charge, custody or
control of the aforementioned animals, to permit the animals to be driven or to
run at large within the corporate limits of the city.
(1990 Code, §§ 6-201 and 6-207) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.003 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any language in §
90.001 to the contrary, the City Council may grant a special permit to keep or
maintain, outside the city limits but within the area within one mile of the
corporate limits in and district zoned residential, commercial or industrial,
any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, chicken, turkey, geese or other fowl. The
number of animals allowed on any premises will be set forth in the permit and
the number shall be determined based on the size of the parcel, its location
and historical use of the premises. Any permit granted shall be appurtenant to
the real estate and shall continue until the land is subdivided unless the
permit is revoked.
   (B)   The fee for the special permit shall be $50 or the same as the fee for
a special use permit established by the Mayor and the City Council from time to
time. The fee shall not be charged to any owner of real estate in the outlined
area, which has any of the above listed animals on the premises as of June 1,
2015. However, those owners shall be responsible for ensuring that a permit is
requested through the City Office within 90 days of the passage of this section
or they shall be required to pay the one-time $50 fee.
   (C)   If any complaint is received by the City Council or the City Clerk
with regard to the animals for which the special permit has been issued, the
City Council may, upon notice and hearing, cancel the special permit. The
receipt of a complaint shall be sufficient cause for the cancellation of a
permit. The animals shall be maintained at all times in a manner so that it
does not annoy or disturb individuals in the neighborhood, does not create
offensive odor, and does not damage the property of any individual other than
its owner. The animals shall, at all times, be kept in the actual physical
control of its owner or handler or a secure livestock enclosure as provided by
the special permit.
   (D)   Nothing in this section is intended to terminate a nonconforming use
that existed prior to the adoption of the Loup City Zoning Regulations unless
the use has been abandoned or discontinued for 12 consecutive months. However,
any such nonconforming use may be expanded or changed without a permit
including, but not limited to, increasing the number of animals, expanding any
structure or subdividing the real property.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.004 UNUSUAL ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the city, unless the animals
are registered with the City Clerk, except that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane society or a carnival from
displaying unusual animals as exhibits, or to prohibit primary and secondary
schools or colleges and universities from using the unusual animal for research
and teaching, or to prohibit any wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate
permits from the State Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitating or
sheltering unusual animals or authorized individuals from sheltering animals
belonging to a public zoo which require extensive care or rehabilitation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give away, transfer or
import into the city any unusual animals as defined in this chapter, unless
registered, excluding a public zoo doing business with another zoo.
   (C)   In the event that a city police officer determines an unusual animal
is being owned, kept or harbored by any person in violation of this chapter,
the city may have the person prosecuted for the violation.
   (D)   Unusual animal shall mean any poisonous or potentially dangerous
animal not normally considered domesticated and shall include animals
prohibited by the city, state or federal requirements, and also:
      (1)   Class mammalia; order carnivora, family felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars) except commonly accepted domesticated
cats and hybrids involving same; family canidae (such as wolves, coyotes and
fox) except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving same; family mustehdae
(such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines, mink and badgers)
except ferrets; family procyonidae (such as raccoon); family ursidae (such as
bears); order primate (such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and order chiroptera
(such as bats);
      (2)   Class reptilia:
         (a)   Poisonous reptiles; cobras and their allies (elapidae,
hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (crotiladae, viperidae); boonslang and
kirtland's tree snake; and gila monster (heleodermatidae); and
         (b)   Non-poisonous reptiles; reptiles large enough to inflict serious
injury or death by biting or constriction including boa constrictors and
pythons.
      (3)   Amphibious reptiles and aquatic reptiles such as alligators and
crocodiles, but not including, small chameleons and lizards.
(1990 Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-256
§ 90.005 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other item or area of enclosure for the
confinement of animals, not specifically barred from the corporate limits of
the city, shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner and condition so as not
to become a menace or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is
located.
(1990 Code, § 6-205) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 RABIES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not
properly vaccinated, which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the
skin of the person shall be seized by the city police and impounded under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or a representative of the Board of
Public Health for a period of not less than ten days. If, upon examination by a
veterinarian, the animal is found to exhibit no clinical signs of rabies at the
end of the impoundment, the animal may be released to the owner or, in the case
of a stray, it shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   If the owner of any animal which has bitten any person, has proof that
the animal has been properly vaccinated, the animal shall be confined by the
owner or other responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which
time the animal shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian and if, no signs
of rabies are then observed by the veterinarian, then the animal may be
released from confinement.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps or harbors any
animal that has bitten any person to fail, neglect or refuse to confine the
animal or to submit the animal to confinement as hereinabove provided.
(1990 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provision, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 90.007 KILLING OF ANIMALS BY AUTHORITIES.
   The city police or animal control officer shall have the authority to kill
any animals showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies, whenever
it appears that the capture of the animal cannot be accomplished without
unreasonably endangering persons or property.
(1990 Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 90.008 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, CRUELTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, main, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality or
any other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the
municipality or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
   (B)   Enforcement power; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may
issue a citation to the owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to
29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal for performing its legitimate official duties.
(1990 Code, §§ 6-203 and 6-204) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 769, passed
12-8-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-138, 28-1008, 28-1009, 28-1012
§ 90.009 TRANSIENT OWNER EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any animal belonging to
any person on a sojourn, or for bench or show purposes in the city, or for
other purposes, provided the animal remains near its owner or keeper, his or
her motor vehicle, other animals, or affects and complies with the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.010 FOWL; WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNER TO KEEP FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on his or her private
property poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or other fowl, unless and until they
have received the written consent of the owners or lessees of the property
immediately adjoining the private property where the fowl are to be kept, and
all other property owners within 150 feet of the place where the animals are to
be kept, which consent shall be filed at the office of the City Clerk and shall
be subject to revocation by any of the owners or lessees at any time.
   (B)   The number of poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or other fowl allowed
to be kept by any person shall be no more than ten total fowl (this includes
poultry, chickens, turkeys and geese) per real estate parcel.
(1990 Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 788, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 FOWL; ROOSTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or maintain roosters on his or her property within the
city, except for commercial retail establishments who offer live fowl or
chickens for retail sale, and governmental and/or non-profit educational
facilities.
(Ord. 788, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.012 FOWL; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese, or any other fowl to run at large within the corporate limits, except in
enclosed places on private property. Such enclosures on private property shall
not exceed 144 feet and shall be fully enclosed on all sides and on the top.
(1990 Code, § 6-207) (Ord. 788, passed 5-3-2016)
DOGS
§ 90.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROL. (The following definition shall apply for purposes of §§
90.028 and
90.029.) To exercise a dominating influence over, either by verbal or visual
command. To CONTROL, the owner, keeper or harborer of the animal must be
physically present and exercising control over the animal.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. (The following definition shall apply for purposes of §§
90.028 and
90.029.) A higher degree of control than the word "control". To hold in
physical restraint. To have IMMEDIATE CONTROL, the owner, keeper or harborer of
the animal must be physically present and exercising physical restraint on the
animal.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of, or permitting any dog to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or fed
within, the person's house, yard or premises. A dog shall be deemed to be
HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered five consecutive days or more.
(1990 Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.021 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; ALLOWING DOG TO INJURE OR DESTROY PROPERTY
UNLAWFUL.
   Dogs are hereby declared to be personal property for all intents and
purposes, and the owner or owners of any dog shall be liable for any and all
damages that may accrue to any person, other than a trespasser, by reason of
having been chased, bitten or mauled by any dog. If two or more dogs owned by
different persons shall kill, wound or chase any domestic animal, the persons
shall be jointly and severally liable for all damage done by the dogs. It shall
be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept or harbored by him or
her, to destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to
another person. The owner or keeper of every dog shall be liable to the owner
of any real or personal property whose property is damaged, altered or defaced
by his or her dog.
(1990 Code, § 6-113) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-601, 54-602
§ 90.022 DOG WASTE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of every dog shall be responsible for the removal
of any excreta deposited on public walks, recreation area or private property
by his or her dog, or deposited as a result of the owner's cleaning of a dog
cage, pen or other dog facility.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of every dog shall be responsible for the removal
of any trash or garbage that is scattered or removed from its rightful place by
his or her dog.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.023 LIVE TRAPS.
   All live traps within the city limits shall be set and operated by the
Animal Control Officer or set and operated under the supervision of the Animal
Control Officer. A LIVE TRAP is defined, for purposes of this section, as a
trap used for the purpose of catching an animal inside it without injuring the
animal.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 LICENSING; CERTIFICATE OR RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; LICENSE TAX;
COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED; LICENSE TAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of six
months within the city shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog,
acquire a license for each dog or cat, or on or before January 1, whichever is
earlier, and annually on or before January 1 of each year thereafter. It shall
be the duty of the City Clerk to administer the issuance of dog licenses and to
issue license certificates and license tags, as herein provided. In applying
for a dog license, the owner of the dog shall state, in writing, upon printed
forms provided for the purpose of the application, his or her own name and
address and telephone number, together with the name, breed, color and sex of
the dog to be licensed.
   (B)   At the time of making the application, the owner of the dog shall also
present to the City Clerk a certificate proving that the dog to be licensed has
been vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS 71-
4401 through 71-4412, as amended or superseded. Application having been made
and a certificate having been presented, as hereinabove provided, the City
Clerk shall issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for
each dog licensed, upon the payment of the owner of a license tax for each dog.
The tax shall be considered to be delinquent from and after January 10 of each
year.
   (C)   License fee.
      (1)   Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of an
annual license fee in the amount of $10, including the $1.25 fee required under
Neb. RS 54-603(3). The license shall not be transferable and no refund will be
allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog.
      (2)   The city shall retain $0.03 of the $1.25 collected on behalf of the
State of Nebraska and credit the $0.03 to the general fund of the city. The
balance of $1.22 shall be sent to the State Treasurer for credit to the
Commercial Dog and Cat Operator Inspection Program Cash Fund.
   (C)   The issuance of the license certificate and metallic tag, as
hereinabove provided, shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the dog within
the jurisdiction of the city until April 30 following the issuance. The license
certificate shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in the case
of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (D)   All dogs within the jurisdiction of the city shall wear a collar or
harness and the metallic license tags, issued as hereinabove provided, shall be
attached to such collar or harness at all times. In the event that a metallic
license tag is lost, and upon satisfactory evidence that the original license
tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the City Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new metallic license tag, which shall be valid for the
balance of the year for which license lax has been paid, for which he or she
may issue a new or duplicate tag.
   (E)   All money collected in payment of the license tax and other fees
provided for herein shall be immediately credited to the general fund. The cost
of the tattoo or microchip shall be paid by the owner.
(1990 Code, §§ 6-101 and 6-102) (Ord. 594, passed 5- -2005; Ord. 612, passed 3-
1-2007; Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 767, passed 12-8-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.025 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by this code, but no license tax shall be
charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a recognized
training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs or service dogs. Upon the
retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid dog or
service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of the
required license tax.
(1990 Code, § 6-101.01) (Ord. 500, passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 90.026 PRESUMPTION OF AGE.
   All dogs found roaming at large without proper proof of date of birth shall
be regarded as animals at least six months old and therefore shall be subject
to the licensing requirement.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 90.027 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city police and Animal Control Officer to
capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to the City Animal Shelter, any
dog violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded
shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient
supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and
maintained at a pound for a period of not less than five days, after public
notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of
impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or identifications,
shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk within 24 hours after
impoundment, as public notification of the impoundment. If the dog is licensed
and wearing the license, the owner shall, within 24 hours, be notified that his
or her dog has been impounded. Notice shall be by an attempt to call the owner
by telephone followed by written notice.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee of $25, and daily board fee
of $15 for each day of impoundment. The owner shall also be required to comply
with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements prior to release of the
dog.
      (2)   If the dog is not claimed at the end of required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the city police or Animal Control Officer
may dispose of the dog in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided that, if, in the judgment of the city police
or Animal Control Officer, a suitable home (for adoption) or shelter (to be put
up for adoption) can be found for any dog, the dog shall be turned over to that
person or organization and the new owner or shelter shall then be required to
pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in
this subchapter.
      (3)   The adoption procedure set forth in this section shall be in lieu
of destruction of the dog pursuant to Neb. RS 17-526. All dogs shall be
destroyed in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of
Health, unless a suitable home or shelter can be found for the dog. All sums
paid to reclaim dogs impounded, and all license fees for dogs shall become a
part of the general fund.
(1990 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 90.028 MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL BY OWNER, KEEPER, HARBORER; IMPOUNDMENT; FEES.
   All dogs within the jurisdiction of the city, other than those upon the
premises of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof, or upon the premises of
someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have
possession, custody or control of, or over the same, are required to be
securely leashed and under the immediate control of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof or of someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer
thereof to have immediate control over the same. Any dog observed by any City
Police Officer or by the City Animal Control Officer to be in violation of this
section shall be impounded by the Police Officer or by the Animal Control
Officer, as the case may be, and shall, upon the impoundment, be dealt with in
accordance with, as provided by and set forth in §
90.027.
(1990 Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547, 17-548, 71-4408
§ 90.029 VICIOUS DOGS; UNLAWFUL TO NOT BE HELD BY CHAIN; MAYOR MAY DIRECT DOGS
BE RESTRAINED OR CONFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the dog being contained in a secure facility as
defined in §
90.052. If any vicious or dangerous dog is allowed to run at large, the city
police shall have the authority to kill the dog, whenever it appears that the
capture of the dog cannot be accomplished without unreasonably endangering
persons or property. Upon the submission of a written complaint of two or more
affected persons from different households, filed with the City Clerk's office,
that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is committing injury to
persons or property, or is an annoyance, dangerous, offensive or unhealthy, the
Mayor may direct the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog to restrain or
confine any dog as is provided for in §
90.052.
(1990 Code, § 6-109) (Ord. 594, passed 5- -2005; Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.030 RABIES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
city which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin of the
person shall be seized by the city police and impounded under the supervision
of a licensed veterinarian or a representative of the Board of Public Health
for a period of not less than ten days at the owner's expense. If, upon
examination by a veterinarian, the dog is found to exhibit no clinical signs of
rabies at the end of the impoundment, the dog may be released to the owner, or,
in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable
law. Any dog vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the city, which has bitten any person, shall be
confined by the owner or other responsible person for a period of ten days, at
which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian and if no signs
of rabies are then observed by the veterinarian, then the dog may be released
from confinement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps or harbors any dog
that has bitten a person to fail, neglect or refuse to confine the dog or to
submit the dog to confinement as hereinabove provided.
(1990 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 90.031 BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL; DISPOSITION.
   In the case of dogs known to have been bitten or scratched by a rabid
animal, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   In the case of a dog which has not been vaccinated in accordance with
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city and which has been bitten
by a known rabid animal, the bitten or exposed dog shall be immediately
destroyed, unless the owner is willing to place the dog in strict isolation in
a kennel under veterinary supervision for a period of not less than six months
and vaccinate the dog one month prior to release from the isolation.
   (B)   If the bitten or exposed dog is vaccinated in accordance with the laws
and the ordinances of the city, the dog shall be subject to the following
procedure:
      (1)   The dog shall be immediately given a booster within five days of
exposure and observed for a period of not less than 30 days following
vaccination;
      (2)   If the dog is not immediately re-vaccinated, the dog shall be
confined in strict isolation in a kennel for a period of not less than six
months under the supervision of a veterinarian and vaccinated one month prior
to release from the isolation; or
      (3)   The dog shall be destroyed, if the owner does not comply with
either divisions (B)(1) or (2) of this section.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4407
§ 90.032 CONTINUOUS BARKING, HOWLING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog within
the city which by constant and continuous barking, whining or howling in an
excessive or continuous fashion shall annoy or disturb the surrounding
neighborhood or other persons. Provided that, the provisions of this section
shall not be construed to apply to the City Animal Shelter.
(1990 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
to kill or to administer, or cause to be administered, poison of any sort to a
dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy or, in any manner, to
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog or cat that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog or cat.
   (B)   Any person who owns, harbors, or in any way sustains a dog that he or
she wishes to be destroyed may place the same animal in the City Animal Shelter
to be destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions herein. The cost to
destroy the animal shall be at the owner's expense.
(1990 Code, §§ 6-111 and 6-117) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1014
§ 90.034 COLLECTION OF FEES, FINES, PENALTIES AND FUNDING.
   All monies received from fees assessed under this subchapter will go into
the general fund. All disbursements made under this chapter will come from the
general fund.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 90.035 LICENSE FEES.
   For issuance of an altered dog license the owner must provide a certificate
of alteration from a licensed veterinarian or a statement from the veterinarian
attesting that for age and/or health reasons alteration would be detrimental to
the health of the animal and the owner must certify that the animal will not be
used for breeding purposes.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 90.036 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or tag from any licensed dog without the consent of the owner,
keeper, or possessor thereof.
(1990 Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.037 NUMBER OF ANIMALS ON PREMISES LIMITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for owners or occupants to own, harbor, or keep
more than three adult dogs on any one premises and within any one residential
unit area within the city.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to keep any number of dogs until three months old.
After that time period, they shall be considered an adult dog and the
provisions on adult dogs will apply.
(1990 Code, § 6-113.01) (Ord. 472, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
City Police Officer or Animal Control Officer who is performing any duty
enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this chapter, or to break, open
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking
open of the animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for
collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(1990 Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Any entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of a city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this subchapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being that
requires medical treatment;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (c)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice from an animal
control authority or an animal control officer of such determination, and the
dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if:
         (a)   The individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at
the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog.
         (b)   The injury, damage, or threat was sustained by an individual
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass, was committing any other
tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, or was committing or attempting
to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or treatment for
one or more broken bones.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment or injures a domestic animal; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
(1990 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 90.051 RESTRAINT.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(1990 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 90.052 CONFINEMENT.
   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground at a depth of at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall contain the words warning
and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(1990 Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 90.053 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an Animal Control
Officer if the owner is in violation of this subchapter. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control authority or
for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this subchapter. In
addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control authority
to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(1990 Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620
ROTTWEILERS, PIT BULLS AND DOBERMAN PINSCHERS
§ 90.065 KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or, in any way, possess
within the corporate limits of the city any rottweiler, pit bull or doberman
pinscher.
   (B)   ROTTWEILER as defined by the American Kennel Club, or mixed dog
containing as elements of its breeding, the breed Rottweiler.
   (C)   PIT BULL DOG is defined as any American Pit Bull Terrier or
Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dog, or
any mixed breed of dog which contains, as an element of its breeding the breed
Pit Bull Terrier.
   (D)   DOBERMAN PINSCHER as defined by the American Kennel Club, or mixed dog
containing as elements of its breeding, the breed Doberman Pinscher.
(Ord. 594, passed 5- -2005; Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of §
90.065 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not more than $500. In addition,
the court shall order the subject rottweiler, pit bull or doberman pinscher
removed from the city. Should the defendant refuse to remove the dog from the
city, the judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation
of this subchapter continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this subchapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care and testimony
necessitated by the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 754, passed 6-2-2015)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES, ENVIRONMENT; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement Official
   
91.03   County Health Board
   
91.04   Jurisdiction
Nuisances
   
91.15   Generally defined
   
91.16   Weeds or other nuisances; abatement; notice
   
91.17   Subsequent offenses
   
91.18   Failure to correct
Vacant Buildings
   
91.20   Purpose and findings
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Program Administrator
   
91.23   Vacant building registration
   
91.24   Vacant building fees
   
91.25   Inspections
   
91.26   Penalties
Dangerous Buildings
   
91.30   Dangerous buildings
   
91.31   Building Inspector
   
91.32   Standards
   
91.33   Unlawful maintenance of dangerous buildings
   
91.34   Nuisance; procedure
   
91.35   Failure to comply
   
91.36   Disputes
   
91.37   Appeal
   
91.38   Immediate hazard
   
91.39   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional nuisances, see also
Ch. 130
   Garbage and refuse disposal, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(1990 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the
Governing Body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(1990 Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(1990 Code, § 4-104)
§ 91.04 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Police Chief, and court shall extend to, and
the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all territory
adjacent to the limits of the city within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 814, passed 1-4-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, Neb. RS 18-1720
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish
or fowl.
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous.
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house-yards, barn-yards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises.
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city.
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner approved
by the health officer.
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles.
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof.
   (H)   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following
defects are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures
and a public nuisance:
      (1)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the
supporting member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
      (3)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of
the people of the city;
      (5)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary,
or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living
that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or
disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare
of those living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire
or panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of communication;
      (8)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
      (9)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the people of the city because of their
condition;
      (10)   Those having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the city which are, after inspection, deemed
to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer;
      (11)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this chapter, any
provision of the Fire Code, any provision of the county health rules and
regulations or other applicable provisions of city ordinances, including, but
not limited to, the Building Code adopted by the city.
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof.
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground.
   (K)   Dead or diseased trees.
   (L)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind are
confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom,
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health.
   (M)   Maintenance of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation of 12 inches or
more in height, or eight inches or more in height on any lot or piece of ground
located within the corporate limits during any calendar year if, within the
same calendar year, the city has previously acted to remove weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation exceeding eight inches in height on the same lot or piece
of ground and had to seek recovery of the costs and expenses of such work from
the owner. Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba\Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solarium carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceoltaum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
   (N)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(1990 Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.16 WEEDS OR OTHER NUISANCES; ABATEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   Weeds or other nuisances. Whenever the Chief of Police or Code
Enforcement Officer appointed by the Mayor determines that:
      (1)   Weeds. Any weeds or grasses on any lot or piece of ground located
within the corporate limits:
         (a)   Are in excess of 12 inches or more in height; or
         (b)   Are eight inches or more in height on any lot or piece of ground
if, within the same calendar year, the city has previously acted to remove
weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation exceeding eight inches in height on the
same lot or piece of ground and had to seek recovery of the costs and expenses
of such work from the owner, are growing on property within the city.
      (2)   Nuisance. Any nuisance other than weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation as defined in §
91.15 found on any property within the extraterritorial jurisdiction or within
the city limits.
   (B)   Citation or notice. The Chief of Police or Code Enforcement Officer
appointed by the Mayor shall determine which of the following is appropriate to
enforce the abatement of the nuisance(s):
      (1)    Work with the property owner and/or occupant to abate the nuisance
over a period of time not to exceed 60 days.
      (2)   Cite the property owner and/or occupant for violation of §
91.18.
      (3)   Notify the City Clerk shall give notice to mow, abate and remove
such nuisance as follows:
         (a)   To each owner or owner's duly authorized agent by certified
mail, which shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance; and
         (b)   To the occupant, if any, by personal service by the County
Sheriff or a Deputy.
   (C)   Appeal.
      (1)   Citations shall not be appealed.
      (2)   Notices from the City Clerk may be appealed within five days after
receipt of notice. To do so, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground may:
         (a)   Request a hearing with the city to appeal the order to mow,
abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk;
         (b)   A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal;
         (c)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Mayor as hearing officer,
who shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the
conclusion of the hearing;
         (d)   If the appeal fails, the city may have such work done unless
such decision is appealed to the District Court;
         (e)   The hearing shall be conducted according to the provisions set
forth in §
91.36(B) hereafter, except that the hearing shall be conducted by the Mayor
instead of the City Council.
   (D)   Abatement. Within five days after receipt of notice from the City
Clerk, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to mow, or abate and
remove the nuisance:
      (1)   The city may have such work done;
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner;
      (3)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(1990 Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 781, passed 2-4-2016;
Ord. 842, passed 10-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.17 SUBSEQUENT OFFENSES.
   In the event that an owner or occupant of any property within the city or
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall have received a notice from the City Clerk
to correct or abate a nuisance within the past 12 months and is again
determined to be maintaining a nuisance(s) on the same property, the owner or
occupant shall be cited as a subsequent offense if previously convicted and
shall be referred to the City Attorney for prosecution.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 842, passed 10-8-2019)
§ 91.18 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   Any owner or occupant of premises within the city or the extraterritorial
jurisdiction who maintains a nuisance(s), as defined herein, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be penalized according to §
10.99. Each day's further violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 842, passed 10-8-2019)
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 91.20 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
the community, including a propensity to foster criminal activity, create
public health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood activity;
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in the city;
   (D)   Vacant property registrations would allow the city to discourage
property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a database of vacant
properties and their owners, and assess fees for the increased public costs
associated with vacant properties;
   (E)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration ordinance have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect he value and security of such
properties; and
   (F)   Enactment of a vacant property registration ordinance is a proper
exercise of governmental authority to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of city residents and is authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 19-5401 et seq.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A building, accessory structure, mobile or modular structure, or
other structure used for commercial, residential or mixed purposes.
   CALENDAR YEAR. A period of one year starting January 1 of the given year and
ends on December 31 of the same given year.
   CITY. The City of Loup City, Nebraska.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Having the objective of supplying commodities (goods
and services), industrial uses, industrial manufacturing and ancillary business
functions.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building with more than 50% of its floor space use
for commercial activity. For the purposes of this section, floor space shall be
designated as the area on the main or street level of the building.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a commercial building or residential building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Lack of active utility service accounts for at least 180
consecutive days;
      (2)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (3)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash, or other
waste;
      (4)   Visible deterioration, unsecured building, or lack of maintenance
of any building on the property;
      (5)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building on the property; or
      (6)   Any other condition or circumstances reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for commercial or residential purposes or being used
for the operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person, persons or entity shown to be the owner or owners of
record on the records of the Sherman County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, condominium, townhouse, apartment complex or
trailer house.
   VACANT. That a commercial or residential building exhibits evidence of
vacancy. Storage does not constitute occupancy unless authorized by the zoning
ordinance of the city.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by the
city to administer and enforce the requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.22 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Zoning Administrator or his or her designee is designated as the
Program Administrator. The Program Administrator may utilize additional city
employees as may be necessary to administer the program with the approval of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.23 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant commercial or residential building or shall
register the building with the City Clerk or the Clerk’s designee if the
property has been vacant for at least 180 consecutive days. A vacant property
registration form shall be in either paper or electronic form, and the
following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number assigned by the
Sherman County Assessor of the vacant property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner;
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant; and
      (5)   A plan for occupancy of the property.
   (B)   The owner shall notify the city of any changes in information supplied
as part of the vacant building registration within 30 days of the change.
Removal of the property from the vacant property registry shall occur when the
property is no longer vacant as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.24 VACANT BUILDING FEES.
   (A)   The vacant property registration fee shall be $250 for a residential
property and $1,000 for a commercial property due and payable 180 days after
initial registration of the vacant property pursuant to this section or 360
days after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner.
   (B)   Supplemental registration fees at intervals every six months
thereafter shall be due for as long as the property remains on the vacant
properly registry. The supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial
registration fee amount.
   (C)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to this subchapter
shall assume the obligations, including the time of vacancy, of previous owner
or owners.
   (D)   Registration fees shall be refundable for the year preceding the date
on which the property is no longer vacant.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.25 INSPECTIONS.
   The Program Administrator or his or her designee shall inspect the interior
and exterior of the vacant property upon submission of a plan of renovation and
prior to approval by the Program Administrator, and upon registration, at one-
year intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant
property registry, and upon the failure to complete the plan of renovation
previously approved by the Program Administrator. If a building is determined
to be unsafe by the Zoning Administrator, it shall be subject to the
requirements of §§
91.30 through
91.39 of this chapter.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
§ 91.26 PENALTIES.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by municipal fines for failure to
comply with its requirements of $100 per day of violation.
   (B)   The city may enforce the collection of vacant property registration
fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Unpaid property
registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of this subchapter shall
become a lien on the applicable property upon the recording of a notice of such
lien in the Sherman County Register of Deeds Office.
   (C)   The lien created under this section shall be subordinate to all liens
on the applicable property recorded prior to the time the notice of such lien
under this section is recorded.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be supplemental and in
addition to any other laws of the State of Nebraska relating to vacant
property.
(Ord. 895, passed 8-2-2022)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 91.30 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures and a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting
member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
   (C)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of
the people of the city;
   (E)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or disease,
so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of those
living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings who live or
may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire or
panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or
other means of communication;
   (H)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
   (I)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health, safety,
or general welfare of the people of the city because of their condition;
   (J)   Those having been inspected by the County Health Department or a
professional engineer appointed by the city which are, after inspection, deemed
to be in violation of any provision of the Health Department rules and
regulations or which are structurally unsafe or unsound as found by the
inspection of the professional engineer;
   (K)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this subchapter, any
provision of the Fire Code, any provision of the county health rules and
regulations or other applicable provisions of city ordinances, including, but
not limited to, the Building Code adopted by the city.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.31 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   A specially designated Building Inspector, his or her authorized
representatives, or a professional engineer shall, at the direction of the City
Council:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in a dangerous or unsafe manner;
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the city for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a dangerous or unsafe building or structure within the terms
of this subchapter;
   (C)   Report to the City Council the results of the inspection; and
   (D)   Appear at all hearings and testify as to the condition of the unsafe
or dangerous building or structure.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.32 STANDARDS.
   In the event that it is determined that any building or structure is unsafe
or dangerous, the following standards shall be followed in substance in
determining whether the structure or building should be repaired, vacated, or
demolished:
   (A)   If the unsafe or dangerous building or structure can reasonably be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of any of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be ordered to be repaired.
   (B)   If the unsafe or dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where an unsafe or dangerous building or structure cannot
be repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be demolished. In all cases where the
unsafe or dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in violation
of the applicable fire codes and regulations, or any other provision of an
ordinance of this city, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.33 UNLAWFUL MAINTENANCE OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It is hereby determined unlawful to maintain a dangerous building within the
corporate limits of the city or within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.34 NUISANCE; PROCEDURE.
   If the specially designated Building Inspector or his or her representatives
or professional engineer finds that a building or structure is unsafe or
dangerous and a nuisance, the City Council shall:
   (A)   Notify the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other persons
having an interest in the building or structure that it has been found to be an
unsafe or dangerous building. The notice will indicate whether the owner must
vacate, repair or demolish the building or structure.
   (B)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe or dangerous, accompanied by a statement of the particulars which
make the building or structure unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring the
same to be put in such condition as to comply with the terms of this subchapter
within such length of time, not exceeding 30 days, as is reasonable;
   (C)   Direct a city employee to place a sign on the building or structure
found to be unsafe or dangerous on its exterior near the main entrance which
shall set forth that the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous for
occupancy and use.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.35 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other person having
an interest in the building or structure shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe or dangerous and a
public nuisance and fails to request a hearing on such determination, the city
may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the property owner. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the
property or recover in a civil action against the property owner(s) the costs
and expenses of the work. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real
estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments
under Nebraska statutes.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.36 DISPUTES.
   (A)   In the event that the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or
other person having an interest in the building or structure disagrees with or
disputes the information contained in the notice, such person shall notify the
City Clerk with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for the
disagreement or dispute and the relief requested. This written request shall be
made within 14 days of mailing of the notice provided by §
91.34 herein. If written notice is received by the City Clerk within 14 days of
mailing or delivery of notice, a hearing shall be held before the City Council,
either at a special meeting or at a regularly scheduled monthly meeting. The
Clerk shall notify the person requesting the hearing, in writing, of the time,
place, and date of such hearing.
   (B)   The hearing before the City Council shall be informal and not governed
by the Nebraska Rules of Evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-judicial in
nature and its decision shall be based on the evidence presented at the
hearing. The person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal counsel
or other representative, may present witnesses and offer evidence, and may
examine and copy, at his or her own expense, and not less than three business
days before the hearing, the records of the city regarding the inspection and
notice. The City Council need not make a written finding of fact and may make
its pronouncement orally at the hearing. The decision of the Council shall be
final unless appealed. Failure of the person to attend the hearing shall
relieve the Council of any further procedures before action is taken as set
forth in a notice.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.37 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may appeal the
decision to the District Court of Valley County, Nebraska. This appeal shall
and must be taken within 30 days of the pronouncement of the Council's
decision.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.38 IMMEDIATE HAZARD.
   In the event the building constitutes an immediate hazard to the life or
safety of any persons and must be demolished to protect their health or safety,
the specially appointed Building Inspector or professional engineer designated
by the City Council shall report such facts to the Council. Upon receipt of
such report the city, by and through the Council, may immediately contract for
the immediate demolition of the unsafe or dangerous building without requiring
bids. The cost of such emergency vacation and demolition of unsafe or dangerous
buildings or structures shall be levied, equalized, and assessed, as are other
special assessments.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
§ 91.39 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or other legal entity maintaining a dangerous building
within the corporate limits of the city or its zoning jurisdiction shall be
guilty of violation of this subchapter and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed $500. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 755, passed 6-2-2015)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS AND PREVENTION
Section
Fires
   
92.01   Preservation of property
   
92.02   Disorderly spectator
   
92.03   Equipment
   
92.04   Interference
   
92.05   Obstruction
   
92.06   Assistance
   
92.07   Driving over hose
   
92.08   Traffic
   
92.09   False alarm
   
92.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.21   Fire code enforcement
   
92.22   Lawful entry
   
92.23   Violation notice
   
92.24   School drills
   
92.25   Fire limits defined
   
92.26   Construction materials within fire limits
   
92.27   Permitted repairs
   
92.28   Removal required
   
92.29   Removal or repair required
   
92.30   Fire prohibited
   
92.31   Fires regulated
   
92.32   Open burning ban; waiver
   
92.33   Use of outdoor fireplaces
Fireworks
   
92.45   Definitions
   
92.46   Permitted fireworks
   
92.47   Throwing firecrackers
   
92.48   Unlawful discharge; special permit
Explosives
   
92.60   Explosives; blasting permits
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 34
FIRES
§ 92.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(1990 Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The
Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during
the time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance
of their official duties.
(1990 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 92.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(1990 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of the
owner or claimant.
(1990 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 92.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(1990 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(1990 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 92.08 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(1990 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 92.09 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(1990 Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907, 35-520
§ 92.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(1990 Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.20 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread
at large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of
the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
§ 92.21 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(1990 Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.22 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(1990 Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 92.23 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of the notice.
(1990 Code, § 7-204)
§ 92.24 SCHOOL DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
municipality to cooperate with the Municipal Fire Department in conducting fire
drills in such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe;
provided, that at least one fire drill shall be held each month. All doors and
exits leading to the outside of the school shall be kept unlocked during school
hours.
(1990 Code, § 7-205)
§ 92.25 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits:
      West half (W1/2) of block number three (3); all of blocks numbered five
(5), six (6), seven (7), sixteen (16), seventeen (17), eighteen (18), nineteen
(19), of the original town Loup City, Nebraska; also the south half (S1/2) of
block number thirteen (13), in Lalk & Krieschbaum's addition to the original
town of Loup City, Nebraska: also the north half (N1/2) of block number twenty
(20) in the original town Loup City, Nebraska; also all of Court House Square,
and also a certain tract of real estate described as follows: Commencing at a
point 100 feet north of the northwest corner of block number four (4), in the
original town of Loup City, Nebraska, known as the Court House Square; running
thence north 150 feet; thence east 300 feet; thence south 150 feet; thence west
300 feet to the point of commencement.
(1990 Code, § 7-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, fire limits, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.26 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless the structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other such
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the structure will
be reasonably fireproof.
(1990 Code, § 7-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.27 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
person shall first submit an application to the City Clerk to make the repairs,
alterations, or to add to any building and shall state on the application that
the material used will be noncombustible and approved by the Fire Chief.
Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not require a
permit. In the event that the repairs, alteration, or addition is to involve
more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for a new
building permit which shall state that the building, when completed, shall be
fireproof and made of noncombustible materials.
(1990 Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.28 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
noncombustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of the fire or other casualty.
(1990 Code, § 7-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.29 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the building in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 7-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.30 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.31 FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause to be
burned, any garbage, animal matter, vegetable matter, straw, hay, leaves, or
brush. It shall be lawful to build fires to dispose of paper products only,
provided that the person setting out the same request permission and receive a
permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a form provided by the
State Fire Marshal. Such fires shall be built and maintained in the manner
prescribed by the Fire Chief, and provided further, that any such burning shall
be done while the fire is attended by the person setting out the same at all
times, and further provided that the fire shall be located at least 20 feet
from any building.
(1990 Code, § 7-212) (Ord. 414, passed 12-7-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01
§ 92.32 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of this section for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall
be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in the jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) of this section.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the Governing Body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in
the course of the state's or political subdivision's official duties.
(1990 Code, § 7-213) (Ord. 434, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.33 USE OF OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      CHIMINEAS. An outdoor patio fireplace, usually made from clay, intended
to confine and control outdoor wood fires.
      GAS FIRE PITS. Being commercially designed and intended to confine and
control outdoor patio fires that use natural gas or liquid propane (LP) as fuel
and shall not be used for cooking nor used with wood, charcoal or any other
flammable material.
      OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
         (a)   Includes portable fire pits, gas fire pits, chimineas, and fire
rings. These OUTDOOR FIREPLACES use wood, natural gas, or liquid propane as
fuel and are used for contained recreational fires for personal enjoyment.
         (b)   OUTDOOR FIREPLACES do not include barbeque grills or smokers
that use propane, charcoal, wood chips, pellets, or other flammable material as
fuel and used primarily for outdoor cooking.
      PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Being commercially designed and intended to confine
and control outdoor wood fires.
   (B)   Outdoor fireplace requirements. All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Construction. The construction and use of outdoor fireplaces that
use wood as fuel shall be completely enclosed by steel screening or an approved
non-combustible screening material with openings in screening to be not larger
than one-half-inch square. A steel screen is recommended but not required on
the vent stacks and chimneys. Fire fuel areas shall be covered with a steel
screen cover made of heavy wire mesh or other non-combustible material with
openings not larger than one-half-inch square. Not permitted are barrels, half-
barrels, drums or similar constructed devices.
      (2)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than three
feet in diameter and a height of more than two feet. Any larger fuel area will
need prior approval from the city.
      (3)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed on stable non-
combustible surface such as a concrete pad. All outdoor fireplaces shall be
placed on a firm, non-combustible surface while in use and shall be 15 feet
from the property line and ten feet from the nearest structure. Outdoor
fireplaces shall not be located on combustible balconies or decks or on any
balcony above the first floor. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be located under
any combustible balcony or any overhanging part of a structure.
   (C)   Types of materials being burnt. Outdoor fireplaces shall only burn
commercial logs and untreated wood; natural sawn dry wood will be allowed to be
burned. Petroleum products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber
or any material that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat,
smoke or offensive smell shall not be permitted. The material being burnt
cannot exceed the width of the fire ring.
   (D)   Amount of materials being burnt. The amount of material being burnt
shall be limited to ensure the flames are confined inside the fuel area of the
outdoor fireplace and the flames do not extend into the chimney or above the
pit. The manufacturer's recommendation on the maximum amount of fuel to be used
at one time shall be followed.
   (E)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by
at least one responsible person of age 18 years or older from the ignition of
the fire until the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cool and the
fire will not rekindle. Supervision further requires that the person(s) be near
enough to continually see and observe the fireplace.
   (F)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for
use.
   (G)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated
when winds are blowing over ten miles per hour and wind directions will cause
smoke, embers, or other burning materials to be carried by the wind toward any
building or other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be
operated when weather conditions are extremely dry.
   (H)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and
care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. The
outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly for the appearance of cracks and
other physical deterioration or loose parts.
   (I)   Smoke nuisance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a
nuisance for neighboring property owners. Outdoor fireplace use will be
immediately discontinued if the use of the outdoor fireplace is determined by
law enforcement to constitute a hazardous or unpleasant condition to occupants
of surrounding property.
   (J)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
(Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2017)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.45 DEFINITIONS.
   Fireworks shall mean any composition or device designed for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation and which meets the definition of common or special fireworks set
forth by the United States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(1990 Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 92.46 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than 50
milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Governing Body or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(1990 Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245
§ 92.47 THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any
building; or into or at any group of persons.
(1990 Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1242
§ 92.48 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE; SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Permissible fireworks may be used, discharged, or caused to be
discharged only on the following dates and times:
         (a)   June 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30; and July 1, 2, and 5; from 9:00
a.m. to 11:00 p.m.;
         (b)   July 3 and 4 from 9:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m.; and
         (c)   December 31 from 9:00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
      (2)   Any use, cause, or discharge at any day or time not listed above
shall be unlawful, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   However, a person may discharge consumer fireworks at times other than
those times designated herein upon obtaining a special permit to do so, which
permit may be issued if approved by the Governing Body upon application.
   (C)   It shall further be unlawful to discharge fireworks within 300 feet of
a fireworks stand, gasoline, station, or any commercial area where flammable
materials are stored, or in or on any public park.
(Ord. 759, passed 8-4-2015)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.60 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the municipality must
secure a permit from the Governing Body and shall discharge the explosives in
conformance with its direction and under its supervision, and in no case shall
any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
Nebraska State Patrol.
(1990 Code, § 7-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1229
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Maintenance and control
   
93.003   Trees
   
93.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
93.005   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
93.006   Permitted obstructions
   
93.007   Weeds
   
93.008   Overhanging branches
   
93.009   Acquisition of property; construction, elections when required
   
93.010   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
93.011   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
93.012   Acquisition of real property
   
93.013   Acquisition of property; appraisal
   
93.014   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
93.015   Regulation of snow, ice, and other encroachments
Sidewalks
   
93.030   Kept clean
   
93.031   Space between lot line and curb; beneath sidewalks
   
93.032   Maintenance
   
93.033   Repair
   
93.034   Construction by owner
   
93.035   Municipal construction
   
93.036   Construction bids
   
93.037   Construction by petition
Streets
   
93.050   Names and numbers
   
93.051   Crossings
   
93.052   Widening or opening
   
93.053   Excavation
   
93.054   Driving stakes
   
93.055   Mixing concrete
   
93.056   Harmful liquids
   
93.057   Eave and gutter spouts
   
93.058   Heavy equipment
   
93.059   Construction notice
   
93.060   Pipe lines and wires
   
93.061   Construction assessment
   
93.062   Improvement districts; objections
   
93.063   Streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other improvements
   
93.064   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
93.065   Petition for improvements
   
93.066   Deferral from special assessments
   
93.067   Driveway approaches
   
93.068   Vacating public ways; definitions and ascertaining damages
   
93.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
Curb and Gutter
   
93.080   Cutting curb
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1990 Code, § 8-101)
§ 93.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.
(1990 Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.003 TREES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall plant or allow to grow any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to, and
receiving a written permit from the Governing Body. Any tree planted within the
sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to be
unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the Governing
Body, be deemed to be a nuisance. When any such tree is declared to be a
nuisance, the Governing Body shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed
at the expense of the owner of the property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon
which the tree has been unlawfully planted. If the property owner fails, or
neglects, to remove, or cause to be removed, that tree, the Governing Body
shall order the same removed and assess the expense of the removal against the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is planted and
growing.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
   (C)   No fee shall be charged for the permit, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now growing within the
sidewalk space.
(1990 Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01, 18-1720
§ 93.004 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the power to remove all obstructions from
the sidewalks, curbstones, gutter, and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there, or at the expense of the municipality, and to require and
regulate the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the streets
and the trimming and removing of such trees.
   (B)   The municipality shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 8-104) (Ord. 780, passed 2-4-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 93.005 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
municipality to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold a public action or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Governing Body may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipality election held therein and
is filed with the Governing Body, that property shall not then, nor within one
year hereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Governing Body, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The
Governing Body shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Governing Body a written receipt that the petition is
in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Governing Body. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Governing Body. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Governing Body
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the names is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Governing Body the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Governing Body within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Governing Body. The delivery shall be
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Governing Body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Governing Body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The
notice shall give a general description of the property offered for sale and
state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of
an ordinance may be required.
(1990 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 455, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 496, passed 6-22-1999;
Ord. 819, passed 2-6-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 93.006 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if the persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the municipal official in charge of municipal
streets to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space,
and more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real
estate on which the building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed,
wrecked, or repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by
the official issuing the permit.
(1990 Code, § 8-106)
§ 93.007 WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Street Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof, to cut down the weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds; provided, any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches on any sidewalk
space shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting the
sidewalk space within the municipality is a nonresident of the municipality or
cannot be found therein the notice may be given to any person having the care,
custody, or control of the lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can
be found no one within the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall
be the duty of the Street Commissioner or his or her agent to post a copy of
the notice on the premises and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut
as therein provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the Governing
Body. The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-107)
§ 93.008 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least seven and one-half feet above the surface of the street or
walk. Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets
or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using the street or sidewalk, the Governing Body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove the obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
from the Street Commissioner, stating that the municipality will remove the
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if the resolution is not
complied with.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.009 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION, ELECTIONS WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on that question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and no election
shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless, within 30
days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase
or construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last
regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Governing Body.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The Governing Body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) of this section if the
property can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an
appraisal, there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than
$25,000. The purchase shall be approved by the Governing Body after notice and
public hearing as provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(1990 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 456, passed 3-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953, 17-953.01
§ 93.010 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to the municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension
district. The Governing Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby, except as provided in §
93.066.
(1990 Code, § 8-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 93.011 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality's Governing Body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such
improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the Governing Body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of the benefits, the costs of the
improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby, whether or
not the properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose. In
creating the special improvement district, the Governing Body shall follow
procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(1990 Code, § 8-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1751
§ 93.012 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the municipality shall do so only after the Governing Body has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(1990 Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 435, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 93.013 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of the property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(1990 Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 436, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
§ 93.014 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provide in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This provision of division (A) shall not apply to any public work
in which the contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed
$100,000 or the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and
Architects.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufactures who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the municipality's architectural or
engineering work.
(1990 Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 497, passed 6-22-1999; Ord. 531, passed 9-5-2000;
Ord. 784, passed 2-4-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see 46-1212, 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449, 81-
3453
§ 93.015 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality shall have power to prevent and remove all
encroachments including snow, ice, mud, or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other municipal property.
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days'
notice by publication, or in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A), the
municipality through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the street fund. The
Governing Body shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the street fund.
(Ord. 774, passed 1-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557, 17-557.01
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.030 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(1990 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.031 SPACE BETWEEN LOT LINE AND CURB; BENEATH SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the Governing Body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for the permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
Should such plans or specifications be disapproved by him or her, no permit
shall be granted therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only
upon the condition that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and
keep in repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pay
all damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by
reason of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a
condition precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of
any space underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the
Governing Body may require applicant to furnish a bond to the municipality as
obligee for the benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or
damages by reason of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the Governing
Body, in its discretion, may designate.
(1990 Code, § 8-202)
§ 93.032 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to the lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk,
and the Governing Body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against the property.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.033 REPAIR.
   (A)   The municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of
the municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which
the sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from
issuance of notice the owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk
repaired. The repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of the
notice. No special assessment shall be levied against the property unless the
owner shall neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed, and in the
event that the owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs
to be made and assess the property owner the expense of the repairs.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-204)
§ 93.034 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied; provided, if it
is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of sidewalks
shall submit the application to the Governing Body who shall determine whether
the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any other location,
grade, or elevation than so designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall
be built and constructed on the established grade, or elevation, and if there
is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the
municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
(1990 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.035 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
Governing Body's intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the City
Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the premises ten days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the City Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   (C)   (1)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage
of the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further, that if he
or she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time, allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of the construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property.
      (2)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
§ 93.036 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the City Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing the work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor, shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk within ten days after the date
of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of
the Governing Body, and the Governing Body shall then award the work to the
lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Governing Body may
require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or her
by the City Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special taxes,
against the real estate whenever the assessments or special taxes, shall be
collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each
certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of
ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed. The
certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to the contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against the real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of the certificate or certificates after the assessments or special taxes
against the real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(1990 Code, § 8-207)
§ 93.037 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   (A)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the
front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for
sidewalk improvements, petition the Governing Body to make the same, the
Governing Body shall proceed in all things as though the construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
Governing Body may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
subchapter upon the freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the
municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will
pay the engineering service fee, and all other incidental construction costs
until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the
freeholder desires the sidewalk to be constructed, and that the petitioner
gives and grants to the municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of
the construction against the freeholder's real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay the costs with interest. The total cost of the
improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed as
provided by law.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-208)
STREETS
§ 93.050 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
Governing Body may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner,
upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign the proper
numbers to the building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and
occupant or occupants of the same.
(1990 Code, § 8-301)
§ 93.051 CROSSINGS.
   The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Commissioner who shall investigate and make his or her recommendation to
the Governing Body. Action by the Governing Body on the application, whether
the application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
(1990 Code, § 8-302)
§ 93.052 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The Governing Body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley,
or lane within the limits of the municipality; to create, open, and improve any
new street, alley, or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(1990 Code, § 8-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through 76-
724
§ 93.053 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief Street Commissioner authorizing the excavations.
(1990 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.054 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief Street Commissioner.
(1990 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.055 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1990 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.056 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1990 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.057 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the
sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(1990 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.058 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it shall
be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any paved
street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that
bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having
lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so
as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and machines move
along paved or unpaved streets, the Municipal Police are hereby authorized and
empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles,
structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-
casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than
seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and March 15; provided, that
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires
having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It shall be permissible
to use a rubber-tired crane with a fixed load when the vehicle will be
transported on a state highway or on any road within the corporate limits of
the municipality, the municipality in which the crane is intended to be
transported has authorized a one-day permit for the transportation of the crane
and specified the route to be used and the hours during which the crane can be
transported, the vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned by
the municipality, and the vehicle's gross weight does not exceed the limits set
out in Neb. RS 39-6,294, and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice, or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(1990 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.059 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Street Commissioner shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during the
construction. The notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at
least 20 days prior to the beginning of the construction by the party
undertaking the construction, and the notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of the time, permits for excavation
will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the completion
of the pavement in the street or alley, and the formal final acceptance thereof
by the proper officials of the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 8-310)
§ 93.060 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the Governing Body. The poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the
companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the Governing Body.
Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body, and
the City Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies
shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The
Governing Body shall designate another location as closely as possible where
the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances may be reset or
placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall
be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with
the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of any public
utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property.
Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 8-311)
§ 93.061 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of the
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding the meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published or
of general circulation in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of the aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. The
assessments shall be known as "special assessments for improvements" and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes, and shall be certified to
the County Clerk by the City Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of the County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent the assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice
was first published.
(1990 Code, § 8-312)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 through
19-2431, 45-104.01
§ 93.062 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Governing Body deems it necessary to make any
improvements allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefited, the Governing Body shall by
ordinance create a paving, graveling, or other improvement district and, after
the passage, approval, and publication or posting of the ordinance, shall
publish notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal
newspaper of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks if it is a weekly newspaper.
   (B)   If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the City Clerk within 20 days after the first publication
of the notice written objections to the creation of the district, the
improvement shall not be made as provided in the ordinance, but the ordinance
shall be repealed.
   (C)   If objections are not filed against the district in the time and
manner prescribed in this section, the Governing Body shall immediately cause
the work to be done or the improvement to be made, shall contract for the work
or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land
abutting on or adjacent to the street or alley especially benefited in the
district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of the improvement.
(1990 Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 457, passed 3-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 93.063 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Governing Body may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, re-curb, gutter, re-gutter, pave, gravel, re-gravel, macadamize,
re-macadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
project may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The Governing Body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two or more connecting or intersection streets, alleys, or public ways,
and may include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this
section in a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which
are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially
benefitted shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as
otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(1990 Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 824, passed 2-6-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.064 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a three-fourths vote of
the Governing Body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling, or other
improvement district and to order the work done upon any federal or state
highway in the municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the Mayor
and City Council as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either
a federal or state highway or a county road. The Governing Body shall contract
therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits,
the costs of the improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby.
(1990 Code, § 8-315)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-512
§ 93.065 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling, or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause the work to be done or
the improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to the
street, streets, alley, or alleys especially benefited thereby in the district
in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement. The
Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system, and grading of streets. If the Governing Body should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for the
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(1990 Code, § 8-316)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 93.066 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Governing Body of a municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in §
93.010 which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343,
Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure the assessment, make application to the Governing Body
of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as
specified in §
93.011. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of the
application in writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing
Body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove the deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
of this section.
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)    The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for the deferral, the owner of record title of the
property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against the property, to the extent of special benefits, had the
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which the assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (3) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding the sale or transfer.
(1990 Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 93.067 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(1990 Code, § 8-318)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 93.068 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Special damages shall mean only those losses or damages or
injuries which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique
to his or her property, and which result from the Governing Body vacating the
street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public ways.
      (2)   Special damages shall not mean those losses or damages or injuries
that a property owner suffers that are in common with the rest of the city or
public at large, even though those losses or damages or injuries suffered by
the property owner are greater in degree that the rest of the city or public at
large.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the municipality to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special
damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which
resulted from the Governing Body vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or
similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved
by the Council. Only special damages, as herein defined, shall be awarded to
the abutting property owners.
   (C)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the aforementioned commission shall use the
following rule:
   The abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of such property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. However, if no difference in value exists, the abutting property
owner is entitled to no compensation.
(1990 Code, § 8-319)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 93.069 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the municipality receives a request or desires to vacate a street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way, the process outlined herein shall be
followed:
   (A)   Request. The request shall be in writing stating the street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way to be vacated, a statement as to reasoning
for the vacation. If the property is zoned residential, a signed consent for
each abutting property owner shall be acquired and turned in with the written
request. If the municipality desires vacation, the request is not required.
   (B)   Notice. Notice shall be given by the Clerk to all the abutting
property owners either by first-class mail to their last known address or, if
there is no address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of
general circulation in the municipality. The content of the notice will advise
the abutting property owners that the Governing Body will consider vacating the
street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at their next regular
meeting or if a special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date,
time and place of the meeting. The notice shall include the written request or
statement from the municipality as to reason for the vacation if the
municipality is requesting vacation.
   (C)   Consent/waiver.
      (1)   The Governing Body may have all the abutting property owners sign a
form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the Governing Body
and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no effect on
claims for special damages, as defined in §
93.068 by the abutting property owners, but does create the presumption that
the Governing Body’s action was proper.
      (2)   However, if all the abutting property owners do not sign the
consent/waiver form, the Governing Body may still proceed with vacating the
street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted
it by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559.
   (D)   Ordinance. The Governing Body shall pass an ordinance that shall state
essentially the following:
      (1)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the municipality;
      (2)   A statement that the municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
      (3)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   (E)   Filing. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the County
Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain title to
their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way
and so that the land will be drawn to the attention of the County Assessor.
(1990 Code, § 8-320) (Ord. 770, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 872, passed 8-3-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 93.080 CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be constructed
in the city, any driveway or apron over the curb and corner of the streets and
avenues of the city without obtaining a permit therefor from the Street
Commissioner. On all streets to be hereafter curbed and guttered and paved it
2023 S-5
56   Loup City - General Regulations
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to notify all parties desiring
driveways into their premises to furnish him or her with the width and desired
location of such driveways, which location shall be subject to approval by the
Street Commissioner. The cost of all such driveways in excess of the cost of
the continuous gutter and curb shall be charged against the lots of real estate
so benefited by their use when the levy for such work shall be made.
(1990 Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 874, passed 9-7-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful acts
   
94.04   Handicapped person; discriminatory practices prohibited; design and
construction standards
   
94.05   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
94.06   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
94.07   Religious organization, private club; private home, or housing for
older person; restricting use not prohibited
   
94.08   Exemptions
   
94.09   Information
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of Loup City, Nebraska, by endorsing the provisions of the Nebraska
Fair Housing Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall
be no discrimination in the City of Loup City, Nebraska, in the acquisition,
ownership, possession or enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article 1,
Section 25, of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
(1990 Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing project; or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addition to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of the person's major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Includes lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration
the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
(1990 Code, § 10-802) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status, or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or
any intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex
of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of the employee or agent because of the employee's compliance with
this chapter or the Nebraska Fair Housing Act; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry of prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(1990 Code, § 10-803) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 HANDICAPPED PERSON; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   Any person associated with the person; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modification of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after January 1, 1995, a failure to design
and construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c) of this section.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(1990 Code, § 10-804) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, transaction related to residential real
estate shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals or real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status, or sex.
(1990 Code, § 10-805) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status,
or sex.
(1990 Code, § 10-806) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, PRIVATE CLUB; PRIVATE HOME, OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSON; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to those persons unless
membership in that religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this division, HOUSING
FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the Commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly person or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(1990 Code, § 10-807) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 94.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not affect the sale or rental of single-family houses by a
private individual if:
   (A)   The person owns three or fewer houses;
   (B)   A real estate broker is not used;
   (C)   Discriminatory advertising is not used;
   (D)   No more than one house in which the owner was not the most recent
resident is sold during any two-year period;
   (E)   Rooms or units in owner-occupied multifamily dwellings for two or four
families are rented, and discriminatory advertising is not used;
   (F)   The sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings that a religious
organization owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose is limited to
persons of same religion, if membership in that religion is not restricted on
account of race, color, or national origin; or
   (G)   The rental or occupancy of lodging that a private club owns or
operates for other than commercial purpose is limited to the club's members.
This exemption does allow discrimination if the reason is race.
(1990 Code, § 10-808) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 94.09 INFORMATION.
   The City Clerk upon request shall make available to an aggrieved person, or
any other person, information regarding the Nebraska Fair Housing Act and the
Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to the individual.
(1990 Code, § 10-809) (Ord. 422, passed 1-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS; SALES
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS; SALES
Section
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
110.01   Regulation
   
110.02   Hours of solicitation
   
110.03   Exceptions
   
110.04   Bond
   
110.05   Expiration; not transferable
Placement of Trailers and Mobile Homes
   
110.15   Permission from Council required
Franchises
   
110.30   Grant of authority; electricity
   
110.31   Cable television subscriber fees and rates
   
110.32   Local cable television franchise policy; adopted by reference
   
110.33   Franchise; solid waste collection for businesses
Lotteries
   
110.45   Establishment of lotteries
   
110.46   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification standards
   
110.47   Participation; restrictions
Tobacco and Cigarettes
   
110.60   License to sell; issuance
   
110.61   License application
   
110.62   License term; fees
   
110.63   Rights of license
   
110.64   Disposition of fees
   
110.65   Transfer of license
   
110.66   Re-issuance of revoked and forfeited license
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 110.01 REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application
for, and be issued a permit. Application for the permit shall be made to the
City Clerk, and shall contain all the necessary information and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes, and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body
deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall
be subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the Municipal Police
or the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 366, passed 8-20-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
§ 110.02 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson, or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless he or she
has a previous appointment with the resident or residents of the premises
solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson, or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(1990 Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 110.03 EXCEPTIONS.
    Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person or persons selling
produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salespersons soliciting
merchants directly, or to a representative of a nonprofit or charity
organization soliciting on behalf of that organization.
(1990 Code, § 10-203)
§ 110.04 BOND.
   Every person who is granted a peddler and hawker permit under the provisions
of this chapter shall be required to file with the City Clerk a bond with a
corporate surety authorized to do business in the State of Nebraska, running to
the city, approved by the City Attorney, in the sum of $1,000, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the ordinances of the city, and the proper conduct
of the business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and further
conditioned for the payment to the person of any damages such person may suffer
by reason of the improper conduct of the business.
(1990 Code, § 10-204) (Ord. 366, passed 8-20-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 EXPIRATION; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   All permits shall remain valid for one year or until the expiration of the
surety bond. It shall be a condition of any such permit granted that the same
may not be assignable or transferable.
(1990 Code, § 10-205) (Ord. 366, passed 8-20-1991)
PLACEMENT OF TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
§ 110.15 PERMISSION FROM COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   Before placing a trailer or mobile home within the corporate limits of the
municipality, the owner and/or resident of the trailer or mobile home shall
first obtain permission from the Governing Body for such placement. This
regulation shall not apply to trailers and mobile homes placed within existing
trailer and mobile home parks within the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 10-401)
FRANCHISES
§ 110.30 GRANT OF AUTHORITY; ELECTRICITY.
   The Governing Body has granted to certain companies from time to time the
authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the
municipality for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the municipality,
and fixing the charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement and
the present electrical rates, charges, and fees are available at the City
Clerk's office.
(1990 Code, § 10-601)
Cross-reference:
   Electricity distribution franchise, see
TSO I
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-528.03
§ 110.31 CABLE TELEVISION SUBSCRIBER FEES AND RATES.
   (A)   It is the intention of the city, by the adoption of these provisions,
to follow the regulations established by the Federal Communications Commission
for the regulation of rates.
   (B)   The initial fees to be charged to subscribers for all services,
including installation fees and other one-time charges, shall be specified in
any franchise agreement issued pursuant hereto.
   (C)   Those fees and charges subject to regulation by the city pursuant to
state and federal law shall not be increased without prior review by the city.
   (D)   In order to obtain city review for rate increases, the franchisee
shall file a revised schedule of rates with the city at least 30 days in
advance of a proposed rate increase. This filing shall specify the rates or
fees to be increased and associated regulations which may affect charges to the
subscriber and the justification for the increases and charges. The franchisee
shall promptly submit any additional supporting information requested by the
city.
   (E)   Within 30 days of the rate increase filing, the city shall schedule
two public meetings before the Council to hear ratepayer and franchisee comment
on the proposed increase. Following the public meetings, the Council may
determine whether or not to grant the proposed increase or a portion thereof
prior to the expiration of the 30-day period, unless the 30-day deadline is
tolled by the city for an additional 90 days to consider request.
   (F)   At least 30 days prior to the proposed rate increase, each ratepayer
or subscriber shall be notified in writing by the franchisee of the changes in
rates proposed.
   (G)   Rates and charges may be reduced at any time without prior city
approval, provided that the reductions do not result in rates which are
unreasonably discriminatory to any subscriber or class of subscribers. Where
temporary reductions are put into effect for promotional purposes for a
specified time period, the return to the permanent rates shall not be
considered a rate increase for purpose of this chapter. The city shall be
notified of all reductions in rates, whether permanent or temporary.
   (H)   Rates and charges not subject to regulation by the city under state or
federal law or regulation may be changed by the franchisee following minimum 30
days' prior notice to the city and the subscribers.
(1990 Code, § 10-602) (Ord. 349, passed 3-27-1990; Ord. 415, passed 3-1-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2201 et seq. 
§ 110.32 LOCAL CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE POLICY; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Cable television franchises granted by the city are subject to a general
local policy. Details of this local policy are on file in the City Clerk's
office.
(1990 Code, § 10-602.01) (Ord. 463, passed 9-25-1996)
§ 110.33 FRANCHISE; SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FOR BUSINESSES.
   The franchise to be granted by the City of Loup City pursuant to this
section shall grant to the grantee the right, privilege and franchise to
operate and maintain in, upon, along, across and under the streets, alleys,
public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all such extensions
thereto and additions thereto in the city a system for the collection of solid
waste; and the right to collect the same from the commercial users of the city
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth. The franchise grants to the
grantee only the right to operate and maintain a system for the collection of
solid waste for commercial businesses. Actual details of the agreement, and the
present rates, charges, and fees are available at the City Clerk's office.
(1990 Code, § 10-603) (Ord. 410, passed 10-5-1993)
LOTTERIES
§ 110.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF LOTTERIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority and approval given by special election in
accordance with the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, the City of Loup
City, Sherman County, Nebraska, shall establish and conduct a lottery or
lottery system, and by these presents, does hereby establish a municipal
lottery and lottery system, the proceeds from which are to be used for
community betterment purposes, awarding of prizes to participants, taxes and
expenses pursuant to the provisions of the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act
and the regulations of the Nebraska Department of Revenue, as now existing or
hereafter amended or supplemented.
   (B)   The City Council shall hereafter adopt by resolution such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary or proper to establish, implement,
regulate, and conduct such lottery or lottery systems and shall have authority,
by resolution, to amend, modify, or supplement such rules and regulations, from
time to time, as the circumstances may require.
(1990 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 344, passed 10-10-1989)
§ 110.46 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the Governing Body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall do the following:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery
and Raffle Act, or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of the partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the
corporation.
   (D)   The Governing Body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(1990 Code, § 10-702) (Ord. 383, passed 5-19-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
§ 110.47 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the municipality.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
municipality. No employee or agent of the municipality, lottery operator, or
authorized sales outlet location shall play the lottery of the municipality for
which he or she performs work during such time as he or she is actually working
at such lottery or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit either any member of the Governing Body, a
municipal official, or the immediate family of such member or official; or an
owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the municipality
from playing the lottery conducted by the municipality as long as such person
is 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or the municipality,
shall knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or
participate in any way in the lottery conducted by the municipality.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY of a member of the
Governing Body or a municipal official shall mean:
      (1)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage, or adoption and resides in the same household; or
      (2)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse of
the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(1990 Code, § 10-703) (Ord. 384, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 503, passed 7-6-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
§ 110.60 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material,
vapor products, or alternative nicotine products to persons over the age of 18
years shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 499, passed 6-22-1999; Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1420, 28-1421
§ 110.61 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the City
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business, and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant's
social security number.
(Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422
§ 110.62 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate of more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale shall pay a
license fee of $100, and if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined sales of cigars packages
of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the
aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate
amount for the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person
swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such
wholesaler's license shall be revoked until the full license fee of $100 is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one- half of the fee provided in this section.
(Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1423
§ 110.63 RIGHTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license, provided for in this chapter, when issued, shall
authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material, vapor
products, or alternative nicotine products by the licensee and employees, to
persons over the age of 18 years, at the place of business described in the
license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is forfeited as a
result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1424, 28-1425
§ 110.64 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the Treasurer of the school fund for
the city.
(Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1426
§ 110.65 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser.
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location.
(Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1428
§ 110.66 RE-ISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Ord. 499, passed 6-22-1999; Ord. 747, passed 4-7-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1429
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Regulations
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Location
   
111.04   Associated dwellings
Licenses
   
111.15   License displayed
   
111.16   Licensee requirements
   
111.17   Liquor application; municipal examination
   
111.18   Liquor license renewal
   
111.19   Licenses; municipal powers and duties
   
111.20   Liquor applications; retail licensing standards; binding
recommendations
   
111.21   Catering license
   
111.22   Liquor application; notice; procedure
Responsibilities and Liability of Owners, Managers, and Lessees; Sales
Restrictions
   
111.35   Owner of premises
   
111.36   Employer
   
111.37   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.38   Spiking beer
   
111.39   Original package
   
111.40   Providing alcohol to minors and incompetents
   
111.41   Minor's presence
   
111.42   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
Business Regulations
   
111.50   Hours of sale
   
111.51   Sanitary conditions
   
111.52   Hiring minors
   
111.53   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.54   Acquisition and possession
   
111.55   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
111.56   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession
Enforcement
   
111.65   Inspections
   
111.66   Citizen complaints
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska.
(1990 Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless the
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
(1990 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 111.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a
bottle club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for
indigent person or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition
does not apply to any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making an application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the
Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university, and no bottle club shall be
operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college within the
municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a non-public college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does not prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail by such licensee on the campus of such non-public college or university
at student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-142.15.
(1990 Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 775, passed 1-5-2016; Ord. 834, passed 2-5-2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-133, 53-142.15, 53-177, 53-
177.01
§ 111.04 ASSOCIATED DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(1990 Code, § 10-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
LICENSES
§ 111.15 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(1990 Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 111.16 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statue or in another
state, except that any additional requirement imposed by this division on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of the partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission
that:
         (a)   The license business will be the sole property of the applicant;
and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or a person
who is mentally incompetent.
(1990 Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 701, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 796, passed 1-5-2017;
Ord. 860, passed 1-5-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 111.17 LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control
Commission. Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, the Governing Body shall fix a time
and place at which a hearing will be held, and at which time the Governing Body
shall receive evidence, under oath, either orally, or in writing, from the
applicant and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such
license. Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
notice from the Commission.
      (2)   The Governing Body may examine, or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of
any such applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof for its information in
the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information
desired, the Governing Body may authorize its agent, the City Clerk or the City
Attorney, to act on its behalf.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time,
not less than seven nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include but not be limited to a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the Governing Body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing.
   (C)   The Governing Body shall, after the hearing provided in division (A),
approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of such application
from the Commission, and shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution approving or denying such application. The City
Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission a copy of the
resolution within ten days of the decision to approve or deny the application.
Any resolution denying an application rendered by the Governing Body shall be
in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by findings. The
findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions upon each
contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in person or
by mail.
(1990 Code, § 10-107) (Ord. 382, passed 5-19-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 111.18 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require that licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed retail
or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while the
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires,
is canceled, or revoked. If the license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year. The City Clerk, upon notice from the
Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of each year, shall cause to be
published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The City Clerk shall
then file with the Commission proof of publication of the notice on or before
February 10 of each year, or August 10 of each year for Class C licenses. Upon
the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Governing Body may
request a licensee to submit an application.
(1990 Code, § 10-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, 53-135.01
§ 111.19 LICENSES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Governing Body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery and micro distillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy of an
application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license, or a micro distillery license, the Governing Body may make and
submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to
grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The Governing Body with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Governing Body has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or micro distillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Governing
Body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in this code or Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor.
The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission
within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with
the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided
for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Governing Body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Governing Body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at
the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing
the Governing Body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceeding a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license
the City Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage
prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published
notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any
license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a
license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from
the security for costs; and
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
Governing Body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local Governing Body as provided in section 14 of the Act. The local
Governing Body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or micro distillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
Governing Body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality, except
that Class J retail license shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain that license.
(1990 Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 520, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 833, passed 2-5-2019;
Ord. 861, passed 1-5-2021; Ord. 882, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, 53-134.03
§ 111.20 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING
RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. The
Governing Body shall only consider the following licensing standards and
criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from the Governing Body to the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local Governing Body's zoning and land-
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen's protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local Governing Body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly
provide the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and
requirements of and rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to
the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local Governing Body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
Governing Body, any other governmental unit, or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant's representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local Governing Body or the employees of the Commission in regard to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local Governing Body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks,
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and
municipal ordinances and regulations, and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant's duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSE.
(1990 Code, § 10-125)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a Class C, Class D, or Class I license issued under Neb.
RS 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual catering license
by filing an application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Governing Body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.19.
   (C)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within the
municipality's corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for
the remainder of the period for which the license is issued. Any person whose
catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The municipality may impose an occupation tax on the business of any
person, firm, or corporation receiving a catering license and doing business
within the municipality. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(1990 Code, § 10-126) (Ord. 381, passed 5-19-1992; Ord. 437, passed 3-7-1995;
Ord. 518, passed 5-9-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Occupation taxes, see §§
33.60 through
33.64
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12(1), 53-124.12(3), 53-
124.12(4), 53-124.12(6)
§ 111.22 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time, and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the Governing Body that prejudice would result
therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure. Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City
Attorney. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action.
Each witness may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by
question and answer. The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing
to be recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (1)   The Governing Body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The City Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the City Attorney of his or her representation prior to the start
of the hearing.
      (2)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the City Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of the proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by City
Attorney, Governing Body, or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to the proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by municipality
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (3)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (4)   Any member of the Governing Body and the City Attorney may question
any witness, call witnesses, or request information.
      (5)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (6)   The Governing Body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (7)   The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(1990 Code, § 10-127)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITY OF OWNERS, MANAGERS, AND LESSEES; SALES
RESTRICTIONS
§ 111.35 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as that
licensee, if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed
premises in violation of any municipal code section or Nebraska statute.
(1990 Code, § 10-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101
§ 111.36 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the employer or
licensee. Each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act of
the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the act or
omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(1990 Code, § 10-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,102
§ 111.37 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any service rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guest in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at the
hotel or eating at the restaurant and charged to the account of such guests; or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(1990 Code, § 10-113) (Ord. 750, passed 4-7-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 111.38 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
the licensee.
(1990 Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-174
§ 111.39 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in his,
her, or their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in
casks, or other containers except in the original package. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor
for strictly private use and not for resale.
(1990 Code, § 10-115) (Ord. 380, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 111.40 PROVIDING ALCOHOL TO MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of, any alcoholic liquors, or
to procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who
is mentally incompetent.
(1990 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 111.41 MINOR'S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment unless
the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and unless the
minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of, the parent or
legal guardian.
(1990 Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.42 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) with an altered or removed
keg identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 773, passed 1-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167.02, 53-167.03
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 111.50 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein:
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular Da 
      Off 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On S6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   Sunday     
      Off 12:00 p.m. noon to 1:00 a.m.
      On S12:00 p.m. noon to 1:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
   Secular Da 
      Off 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On S6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   Sundays    
      Off 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On S6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
      (2)   Provided, that the limitations of division (A)(1) above shall not
apply after 12:00 p.m. noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit
corporation holding a license pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124(5)(C) and (H), Reissue
Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1943.
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises. For the
purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold
by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed establishment; OFF
SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original
container for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(1990 Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 364, passed 8-6-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.51 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal Police
may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be
viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(1990 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.52 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
the licensee's customers.
(1990 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 111.53 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the Governing Bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(1990 Code, § 10-120)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, cafe or club, or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
cafe or club, or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not
apply to a retail license issued for lawfully engaged in the catering of
alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-
6,211.08.
(1990 Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 519, passed 5-9-2000; Ord. 832, passed 2-5-2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186(1), 53-186.01
§ 111.54 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exceptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
importing alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for
use by such person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such
person in any one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(1990 Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 458, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 797, passed 1-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-175, 53-194.03
§ 111.55 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities
or doctor which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat
such individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals. If such
efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours. The placement
of such person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or
jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or
next of kin, if they can be located, or to such person designated by the person
taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or other state, county, or
municipally-owned property.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean and
include private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or business
uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress.
(1990 Code, § 10-122)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 111.56 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, bottle, blend, sell,
barter, transport, deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for
beverage purposes except as specifically provided in this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act; provided, nothing in this section shall prevent
any of the following:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her family
or guests;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her possession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an authorized
representative of any religion on the premises of a place of worship, for the
purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years or older from carrying alcoholic liquor from
licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment;
   (H)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
   (I)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Ord. 798, passed 1-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.65 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of the Act, the
license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an
opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(1990 Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 862, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
§ 111.66 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Governing Body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the Governing Body, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Governing Body and shall be signed and sworn by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the Governing Body is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint; provided, that the complaint must in all cases be
disposed of by the Governing Body within 30 days from the date the complaint
was filed by resolution thereof. The resolution shall be deemed the final order
for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided by
law.
(1990 Code, § 10-124)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against the Peace
   
130.001   Resisting arrest, without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
130.002   Obstructing a peace officer
   
130.003   False reporting
   
130.004   Interfering with a firefighter
   
130.005   Disturbing the peace
   
130.006   Disorderly conduct
   
130.007   Curfew
   
130.008   Violence on a service dog; interference with a service dog
   
130.009   Window peeping
   
130.010   Loud, unnecessary noise
Offenses Against Property; Nuisances
   
130.020   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.021   Prohibited fences
   
130.022   Appliances in yard
   
130.023   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.024   Littering
   
130.025   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.026   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.027   Injury to trees
   
130.028   Collection of taxes, real estate, bonded indebtedness, destruction or
removal of buildings
Weapons
   
130.040   Discharge of firearms
   
130.041   Unlawful possession of a revolver
   
130.042   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
Controlled Substances
   
130.055   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
   
130.056   Driving under the influence; person under 21 years of age
Pretrial Diversion Program
   
130.065   Definition of program
   
130.066   Eligibility
   
130.067   Application
   
130.068   Screening applicants
   
130.069   Provisions of plan and program
   
130.070   Denial; notification administrative review
Sex Offender Residency Restrictions
   
130.080   Findings and intent
   
130.081   Definitions
   
130.082   Residence prohibition; penalties; exceptions
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 130.001 RESISTING ARREST, WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally prevent or
attempt to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his or her official
authority, from effecting an arrest on that person or on another, by:
      (1)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer of another;
      (2)   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employing means which require substantial force to overcome
resistance to effecting the arrest.
   (B)   Provided, that this section shall apply only to those actions taken to
resist arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(1990 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-904
§ 130.002 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference, or obstacle, to intentionally obstruct, impair,
or hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by
a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official authority.
(1990 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 130.003 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause that information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of that department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(1990 Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 502, passed 7-6-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.004 INTERFERING WITH A FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, he or she willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobey the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(1990 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 130.005 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(1990 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.006 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using of obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places, or is otherwise indecent or disorderly
conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(1990 Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-129, 17-556
§ 130.007 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR CHILD. Any person who is less than 18 years of age.
      WEEK NIGHTS. Commencing at 10:00 p.m. on Sunday and concluding at 6:00
a.m. on Friday.
      WEEKENDS.  Commencing at 6:00 a.m. on Friday and concluding at 10:00 p.m.
on Sunday.
   (B)   Curfew. It shall be unlawful for any person less than 18 years of age
to be upon or remain upon any street, alley, or other public place within the
city from 10:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on week nights or between 12:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. on weekends, unless the person is accompanied by a parent or guardian or
other person, not a minor, who has custody of the minor. A minor child
traveling to, from, or during lawful employment shall be exempt from the
provisions hereof, provided he or she follows the most direct route to, from,
or during the employment. Provided, further, it shall be unlawful for any
person 15 years of age or younger to be upon or to remain upon any street,
alley or other public place within the city from 10:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on
week nights or weekends, unless the person is accompanied by a parent or
guardian or other person, not a minor, who has custody of the minor.
   (C)   Issuance of citation. Every law enforcement officer within the city is
hereby authorized to issue a citation to the parent or guardian of any minor
child in violation of the provisions of this section. If the parent or guardian
cannot be found, a report of the violation shall be referred to the City
Attorney.
   (D)   Duty of parent, guardian, or legal custodian. It shall be the duty of
any parent, guardian, legal custodian, or person having legal care and custody
and control of a minor child, as defined herein, to control the minor child so
that he or she is not in violation of this section. It shall be unlawful for
any parent, guardian, legal custodian, or person having legal care and custody
of a minor child defined herein to allow or permit the child to go or be upon
any public street, alley, or other public place in the city in violation of
this section.
(1990 Code, § 6-316) (Ord. 462, passed 7-2-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.008 VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she intentionally injures, harasses, or threatens to injure or harass; or
attempts to intentionally injure, harass, or threaten a dog that he or she
knows or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she intentionally impedes, interferes, or threatens to impede or
interfere; or attempts to intentionally impede, interfere, or threaten to
impede or interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is
a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a
deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited
person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in division (A) or (B) of this section, after being requested
to avoid or discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf,
hearing-impaired, or physically limited person being served or assisted by the
dog, shall create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant
was initiated or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON.  A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including but not limited
to braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech, or readers.
      DEAF PERSON.  A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing,
with or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary
means of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including
but not limited to lip reading, sign language, finger spelling, or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person's better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including but not limited to having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person's better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person's field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(1990 Code, § 6-322) (Ord. 501, passed 7-6-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
§ 130.009 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or stealthily go upon the
premises of another in the city and look or peep into any window, door, or
other opening in any building located thereon which is occupied as a place of
abode or to go upon the premises of another for the purpose of looking or
peeping into any window, door, or other opening in any building thereon which
is occupied as a place of abode.
(Ord. 735, passed 1-6-2015)
§ 130.010 LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise, or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this code, but such enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, street car or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the city except as a danger warning, the creation
by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound
and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period
of time. The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electricity, the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust and the use of any signaling device when traffic is for any reason held
up.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing of sound in
such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntarily listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine in such
a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building,
structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facia evidence of a
violation of this code. The hours may be extended by permit obtained from the
City Office for block parties only.
      (3)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday,
and midnight and 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, or at any time or place so
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office,
or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any persons in the
vicinity.
      (4)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
      (5)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (6)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building and/or the
operation of any pile driver, pneumatic hammer, derrick, electric hoist or
other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, other
than between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety.
(Ord. 739, passed 2-3-2015; Ord. 889, passed 3-8-2022)
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY; NUISANCES
§ 130.020 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(1990 Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.021 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
(1990 Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321, 39-307
§ 130.022 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(1990 Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 130.023 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or on the adjoining
streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain
thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have such work done. Within five days after
receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground
does not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used a
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris) leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium Arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), runnsion
knapweek (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhammus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(1990 Code, § 6-309) (Ord. 372, passed 10-22-1991; Ord. 385, passed 5-19-1992;
Ord. 640, passed 9- 8-2009; Ord. 723, passed 6-3-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.024 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering, unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   The word  LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of that
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(1990 Code, § 6-320) (Ord. 433, passed 3-7-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §
130.026
   Unlicensed, inoperable vehicles, see §
130.025
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.025 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on the property longer than 30 days. No
unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public
property for any length of time; provided, this section shall not apply to a
vehicle in an enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise, operated in a lawful place and manner, when the vehicle is
necessary to the lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of
this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1990 Code, § 6-321) (Ord. 442, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 459, passed 5-7-1996)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.026 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county or city-owned property.
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid in transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed.
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and the title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
   (D)   (1)   If a law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle for
investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it shall
send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any, and
lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in the
custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed for
law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of the
vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle,
when it is taken into custody, is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related
to the offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into
custody. If a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not
convicted, the registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage
fees.
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(1)(e) or (A)(2)(d) of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)( 1 )(a),
(b), (c) or (d) or (A)(2)(a), (b), or (c) of this section to be removed from
public property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
city which shall have custody.
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) or (A)(2)(a), (b), or (c) of
this section.
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(1990 Code, § 6-317) (Ord. 525, passed 7-5-2000; Ord. 636, passed 6-2-2009;
Ord. 745, passed 4-7-2015; Ord. 835, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 876, passed 12-7-
2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1909, 60-1911
§ 130.027 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the Governing Body to do so, and the written permit of the Governing Body in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(1990 Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 28-519
§ 130.028 COLLECTION OF TAXES, REAL ESTATE, BONDED INDEBTEDNESS, DESTRUCTION OR
REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Except in any municipality which has adopted a building code with
provisions for demolition of unsafe buildings or structures, it shall be
unlawful for any person to tear down or remove any building situated on any
real estate while there are any delinquent any taxes unpaid thereon, or to
remove any building situated within the corporate limits of any municipality
which has an unpaid bonded indebtedness or which municipality is a part of or
all of a school district which has such bonded indebtedness, to a point outside
of the municipality, without paying to the County Treasurer, to be deposited by
the Treasurer in the Bond Sinking Fund of the municipality, school district, or
municipality and school district, as the case may be, an amount that bears the
same proportion to the total outstanding bonded indebtedness of the
municipality, if the municipality has such bonded indebtedness, as the assessed
valuation for the preceding calendar year of the building sought to be removed
bears to the total assessed valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality for the preceding calendar year or, if the school district has
outstanding bonded indebtedness, an amount which is a similar proportion of the
assessed valuation of the building sought to be removed to the total
outstanding bonded indebtedness of the school district, or both such amounts,
as the case may be.
   (B)   Any person so offending shall be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor, and
shall moreover be liable to the county, to be recovered in a civil action, for
the amount of all delinquent taxes on the real estate, and to the municipality
for the amount of the proportion of any outstanding bonded indebtedness of the
municipality to be recovered in the name of the municipality, and also to the
school district for the amount of the proportion of any outstanding bonded
indebtedness of the school district to be covered in the name of the school
district; provided, such action may be brought in the name of the county,
municipality, or school district for the delinquent taxes and also for the
proportion or proportions, if the one bringing the action has an interest in
any of the taxes or amounts, for the benefit of all those interested in the
same. Such proportion of the indebtedness, in either or all of the cases, is
hereby made and shall be a lien upon the building so removed from the
municipality, and the lien and the lien of the taxes shall follow and adhere to
the building or the materials thereof wherever situated, or into whatever form
the same may be converted.
(1990 Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.040 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body.
(1990 Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.041 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF A REVOLVER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess a
pistol, revolver, or any other form of short-barreled hand firearm; provided,
that it shall be lawful to possess a pistol, revolver, or short-barreled
firearm for instruction under the immediate supervision of a parent, guardian,
or adult instructor.
(1990 Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1204
§ 130.042 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(1990 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
§ 130.055 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over the property.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  
            1.   a.   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
               b.   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or
               c.   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
            2.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER.  Any bottle, can, or other
receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in that area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(1990 Code, § 6-318) (Ord. 526, passed 7-5-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Consuming liquor on public property, see Neb. RS 53-186
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.08
§ 130.056 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PERSON UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When the person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less
than the concentration prescribed under subdivision (1)(b) of Neb. RS 60-6,196;
or
      (2)   When the person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than
the concentration prescribed under subdivision (1)(c) of Neb. RS 60-6,196.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in the blood or breath.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a chemical test or
tests of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the
concentration of alcohol in the blood or breath, when the officer has probable
cause to believe that the person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle in the municipality in violation of this section. The peace
officer may require the person to submit to a preliminary breath test. Any
person who refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose
preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation
of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol. If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or the person refuses to submit to the
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if the test was actually made.
(1990 Code, § 6-323) (Ord. 506, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, 60-6,203
PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM
§ 130.065 DEFINITION OF PROGRAM.
   The pretrial diversion program offers persons charged with criminal offenses
or municipal violations an alternative to traditional criminal justice or
juvenile system proceedings by:
   (A)   Permitting participation of the accused only on a voluntary basis;
   (B)   Having access to counsel prior to an adjudication when a decision has
been made by the prosecutor that the offense will support criminal charges; and
   (C)   Resulting in the dismissal of charges or its equivalent, if the
individual successfully completes the diversion process.
(1990 Code, § 6-401)
§ 130.066 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Any person other than those charged with minor traffic violations are
eligible for a pretrial diversion program. An applicant may be determined not
eligible for pretrial diversion for the following reasons.
      (1)   Frequent other violations of city or county statutes or ordinances;
      (2)   Prior refusal to complete a pretrial diversion plan; and
      (3)   Special circumstances considering the arrest of violation by the
pretrial diversion applicant.
   (B)   If an applicant is found eligible for enrollment in the diversion
program, a plan shall be set up by the City Attorney with the aid of the Mayor,
Police Chief, and City Council.
(1990 Code, § 6-402)
§ 130.067 APPLICATION.
   Any person who meets the above requirements may apply for a pretrial
diversion plan by contacting the office of the City Attorney within ten days
after an arrest has been made. The City Attorney shall then set up an interview
with the applicant to determine eligibility and willingness to participate in
the program.
(1990 Code, § 6-403)
§ 130.068 SCREENING APPLICANTS.
   The following shall be considered members of the screening program to
determine eligibility:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   City Attorney; and
   (C)   Police Chief.
(1990 Code, § 6-404)
§ 130.069 PROVISIONS OF PLAN AND PROGRAM.
   The pretrial diversion program shall provide the following:
   (A)   A maximum time limit for any defendant's participation in a diversion
program, beyond which no defendant shall be required or permitted to
participate. (This period shall be sufficient enough to effect a change in the
participants to deter them from criminal activity, but not so long as to
prejudice the prosecution of defense of the case should the participant be
returned to the ordinary course of prosecution.)
   (B)   After the plan is completed, the defendant may review the plan with
his or her counsel present, including the average program duration and the
possible outcome prior to making the decision to enter into the diversion
program.
   (C)   Upon completion of the program, the diverted case will be dismissed
or, if it has not been filed at that point, the diverted case will not be
filed.
   (D)   A provision of the plan will be that the participants shall be able to
withdraw at any time before the program is completed and be remanded to the
court process without prejudice to them during the ordinary course of
prosecution.
   (E)   No enrollment under this plan shall be conditioned on a plea of
guilty. This plan must take place prior to a plea of guilty being entered by
the applicant.
   (F)   Any person convicted of a violation of city ordinance of a criminal
nature other than a minor traffic violation shall be notified of the
availability of the pretrial diversion plan by the arresting officer and the
time limits prescribed by those who wish to enter into the program.
(1990 Code, § 6-405)
§ 130.070 DENIAL; NOTIFICATION ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   If the pretrial diversion applicant has been denied enrollment in the
diversion program, he or she shall be notified and at the same time notified
that he or she is entitled to an administrative review of the decision and
written reasons for denial. If the applicant requests administrative review and
written reasons for denial, an administrative hearing will be held within ten
days after written reasons for the decision have been given to the applicant.
(1990 Code, § 6-406)
SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
§ 130.080 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers, where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 617, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 815, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 130.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place which may include more than one
location and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells which may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01 and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
(Ord. 617, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 815, passed 1-4-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4016
§ 130.082 RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally by this code.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision.
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
the residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator's residence at that location.
(Ord. 617, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 815, passed 1-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4017
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING AND ZONING REGULATIONS
         
151.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
         
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Plans, specifications, plats and reports; municipal officials; duty
Zoning Administrator
   
150.015   Power and authority
   
150.016   Right of entry
   
150.017   Permit card
   
150.018   Procedure in obtaining building permit
   
150.019   Appeal from decision
Building Permits
   
150.030   Building permits
   
150.031   Limitation
   
150.032   Duplicate to County Assessor
Building Moving
   
150.045   Regulations
   
150.046   Deposit
Demolition Permits
   
150.050    Demolition permits
   
150.051    Limitation
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.060   Definitions
   
150.061   Prohibition
   
150.062   Determination and notice
   
150.063   Hearing and appeal
   
150.064   Emergency
   
150.065   Special assessments
Construction Codes
   
150.075   Plumbing Code; prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
   
150.076   State Building Code
   
150.077   Property Maintenance Code
   
150.078   Inspections, investigations
   
150.079   Fees
Certificate of Continued Occupancy
   
150.085   Certificate required; exceptions
   
150.086   Applications for certificate
   
150.087   Inspection
   
150.088   Correction of deficiencies
   
150.089   Failure to comply
   
150.090   Board of Appeal
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS AND REPORTS; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(1990 Code, § 9-107) (Ord. 498, passed 6-22-1999)
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
§ 150.015 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Governing Body may employ a Zoning Administrator who shall have the duty
of enforcing all building, zoning, and housing regulations as herein
prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or
moved in the city as often as necessary to insure compliance with the effective
zoning ordinance of the city. He or she shall have the power and authority to
order, at the direction of the Governing Body, all work stopped on any
construction, alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions
prescribed herein, including violations of the effective zoning ordinance of
the city, to be remedied immediately. If the stop order is an oral one, it
shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written order
may be served by any municipal law enforcement officer. In the event the
Governing Body fails to employ a Zoning Administrator, the Chief of Police
shall be the Zoning Inspector ex officio.
(1990 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 534, passed 1-2-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning ordinance adopted, see §
151.01
§ 150.016 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Zoning
Administrator entry into any building or structure where the work of
construction, alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose
of making official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1990 Code, § 9-102) (Ord. 534, passed 1-2-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.017 PERMIT CARD.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Zoning Administrator shall
furnish to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and
shall contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number
of the permit, and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently
displayed on the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the
building or structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been
made.
(1990 Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 534, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 150.018 PROCEDURE IN OBTAINING BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of an application from the resident
wishing to obtain a building permit or amend the zoning ordinance and upon a
building permit being issued, shall make an inspection of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed, or shall notify the permit holder, or his or her agent, that the
work fails to comply with the requirements of the municipal code.
(1990 Code, § 9-104) (Ord. 534, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 150.019 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
subchapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Zoning Administrator, the owner
or agent may file an appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the
Zoning Administrator has been made. The Governing Body shall hear all appeals
and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Zoning Administrator. Such decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity.
(1990 Code, § 9-105) (Ord. 534, passed 1-2-2001)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.030 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit.
The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk
for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description
of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place; the
nature of the use or occupancy; the principal dimensions; the estimated cost;
the names of the owner, architect, and contractor; and such other information
as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and specifications so
filed with the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Governing Body
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Governing Body shall authorize
the City Clerk to issue the applicant a permit, upon the payment of the permit
fee set by resolution of the Governing Body. Whenever there is a discrepancy
between permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in
any building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern.
(1990 Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550, 17-
1001
§ 150.031 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued
for a period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be
resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an
original permit.
(1990 Code, § 9-202)
§ 150.032 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit or zoning permit is issued for the erection,
alteration or repair, of any building within the city’s corporate limits or
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a
duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(1990 Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 877, passed 12-7-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.045 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the City Clerk, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located. The City Clerk shall refer the
application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed route over
which the building is to be moved. Upon approval of the Governing Body, the
City Clerk shall then issue the permit; provided, that a good and sufficient
corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by motion of the
Governing Body and conditioned upon moving that building without doing damage
to any private or municipal property is filed with the City Clerk prior to the
granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be required to move a building
that is ten feet wide, or less, and 20 feet long, or less, and when in a
position to move, 15 feet high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for
any licensed building mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles
and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating
the poles, wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the
building moving operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or
related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection
or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the company's franchise.
Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a water
main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various municipal officials in charge of the municipal utility
departments who shall proceed in behalf of the municipality and at the expense
of the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(1990 Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,288 through 60-6,294, 60-
6,296
§ 150.046 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Municipal Police
shall inspect the premises and report to the City Clerk in writing as to the
extent of damages, if any, resulting from the relocation and whether any
municipal laws have been violated during the operation. Upon a satisfactory
written report from the Municipal Police, the City Clerk shall return the
corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the event
the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered,
or in a clean and sanitary condition, the Governing Body may apply the money
deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover the excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise prescribed by law.
(1990 Code, § 9-302)
DEMOLITION PERMITS
§ 150.050 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed demolishing any building or
dwelling, or cause the same to be done, shall file with the City Clerk an
application for a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a
form to be furnished by the City Clerk for that purpose. Every such application
shall set forth the legal description of the land upon which the building that
is to be demolished is located; class of building that is to be demolished, a
list of building materials that will be demolished, the names(s) of the owner
and contractor; and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application so filed with the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the
governing body and if the application is found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances, applicable thereto, the
governing body shall authorize the City Clerk to issue the applicant a permit,
upon the payment of a permit fee set by resolution of the governing body.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures contained
herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference, the
provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Ord. 682, passed 7-3-2012)
§ 150.051 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the demolition shall be discontinued for
a period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and for as an original permit.
(Ord. 682, passed 7-3-2012)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.  
      (1)   As used in this subchapter, any building, shed, fence, or other
man-made structure which:
         (a)   Is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or
any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire
hazard; or
         (c)   By reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable to
cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
      (2)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(1990 Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.061 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while
it is in an unsafe condition.
(1990 Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.062 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Official, the Health
Official, or the Governing Body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon
cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of the
determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve
written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any,
by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that the dangerous
condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or
by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within 60 days from
the date of receipt.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
   "To: __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   "You are hereby notified that ______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by
______________________________________________. The causes for this decision
are __________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   "You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the City Clerk within ten days from the date
of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing."
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the Governing Body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(1990 Code, § 9-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.063 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City Clerk
request a hearing before the Governing Body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
Governing Body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the Governing Body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the Governing Body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the
sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after the
five-day period the owner has not begun work, the Governing Body shall proceed
to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal the
decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which proceedings
the decision of the Governing Body shall be stayed. Where the municipality has
not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating to bonded
indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(1990 Code, § 9-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.064 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove the building or structure.
(1990 Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.065 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of the work shall be
transmitted to the Governing Body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
(1990 Code, § 9-406)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.075 PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead-free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD-FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux - not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than 8% lead.
(1990 Code, § 9-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. 71-5301
§ 150.076 STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The State Building Code as adopted by the city under their authority
as provided in Neb. RS § 81-2104, is hereby adopted as the official Building
Code of the city and all of its provisions are hereby adopted herein as if set
forth in detail.
   (B)   From and after August 1, 2009, all buildings constructed or repaired
within the city shall conform to the State Building Code and all amendments
adopted thereto.
   (C)   Any person constructing or repairing any building, from and after the
passage of this section, not in conformity with the State Building Code and its
amendments shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in a sum not to exceed
$500.
(Ord. 631, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.077 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division
(B).
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Loup City
      Section 103.5. Insert: Fees. All fee schedules of the Property
Maintenance Code shall be determined by Resolution of the City Council of the
City of Loup City.
      Section 302.4. Insert: 12 Inches Section 302.14. Insert: April 15th to
October 1 Section 602,3. Insert: October 1st to April 15th Section 602.4.
Insert: April 15th to October 1st
(Ord. 632, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.078 INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Code Official shall conduct inspections and investigations
necessary to enforce the standard and may, at reasonable hours, enter into any
building and upon any premises within its jurisdiction for the purpose of
examination to determine compliance with this article. Inspections shall be
conducted only after permission has been granted by the owner or occupant, or
after a warrant has been issued pursuant to Neb. RS 29-830 to 29-835.
   (B)   During construction, the Code Official designated shall make periodic
inspections to assure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 634, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.079 FEES.
   The person filing the application for a permit under this chapter, shall, at
the time of such filing, pay to the city a fee for a permit. The rates for such
fees and any other fees attached to the issuing of permits shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 634, passed 7-7-2009)
CERTIFICATE OF CONTINUED OCCUPANCY
§ 150.085 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Certificate required. No person shall rent or lease or allow any
person to occupy any dwelling unit for residential purposes, or allow any
person to inhabit any one- and two-family dwelling unit, unless a certificate
of continued occupancy has been obtained.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to hotels, rooming houses or
motels that are generally occupied by tenants or guests for less than 30
successive days, units not intended for human habitation or new construction,
for which inspection and certificate of occupancy is required by the Uniform
Commercial Code.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.086 APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any owner intending to sell, rent or lease any dwelling unit or
allowing any person to inhabit a dwelling unit, shall apply to the Code
Official for a certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   All applications for such certificates shall be made in writing and
shall state the name and address of the owner of the structure, the name and
address of the owner-occupant or tenant-occupant or any other occupant of the
structure, the name and address, is a sale or transfer of title, of the seller,
transferor, buyer and the new proposed occupant, and the name and address of
the renting agent. It shall also describe the premises to be occupied,
including the street address thereof, and designation of the portion or
portions of the premises or structures for which the specific application is
being made and shall set forth the number of persons who shall occupy and all
portions of the premises. Application shall include consent to inspection for
executed by all the owners and the required fee.
   (C)   All owners or renting agents of real or person or persons applying for
a certificate as provided hereby shall advise the Code Official or his agent of
a reasonable time or times that the inspections may be made and have someone
present to assist and provide entry for the inspection purposes.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.087 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Within ten working days of the receipt of the payment of the required
fees and the application form, the owner shall afford the inspectors the
opportunity to inspect the structure and shall consent to the inspection.
   (B)   The Code Official shall thoroughly examine the interior or exterior of
the premises to determine whether the premises complies with the International
Property Maintenance Code and all of the other ordinances of the city related
to building, plumbing, electrical, health, safety, fire and minimum building
standards and that there are no violations of State Building Code and that the
premises are fit, safe and useable for human occupation.
   (C)   With ten working days of the inspection, the Code Official will issue
a certificate of continued occupancy or deny the same, setting forth the
reasons as set forth above.
   (D)   (1)   If the Code Official determines that the premises are in
compliance with all local and state codes, he will issue a certificate of
continued occupancy to be valid so long as the occupants listed in the
application remain on the premises.
      (2)   If a dwelling unit is not occupied within 12 months of the issuance
of a certificate of continued occupancy, the certificate will expire, and a new
certificate must be obtained before occupancy.
   (E)   If the Code Official determines that because of deficiencies of
violations, the permit cannot be issued, he shall notify the owner of these
deficiencies and allow the owner 90 days to correct the violations. Notice
shall be sent as provided in the International Property Maintenance Code. The
notice shall identify the premises and specify the violations of by chapter and
code section.
   (F)   Any violation of the ordinances, codes and statutes referred to in
this subchapter shall be grounds for the denial of a certificate of continued
occupancy.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.088 CORRECTION OF DEFICIENCIES.
   In the event that, upon inspection of the Code Official, a violation exists
which reveals that the property is being utilized as a multifamily dwelling
(i.e. three or more families) in violation of the local Zoning Ordinance, the
following shall be required in order to satisfy the Enforcement Officer that
said condition has been abated.
   (A)   If separate and distinct utility services are installed at the
premises for the unites in violation these utility services must be removed to
the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The present owner and contract purchaser, if any, must execute a
statement, under oath, acknowledge that they are aware that the premises are to
be used in a manner which is consistent with all local and state laws and they
are further aware that all providers of municipal services and other ordinances
that they will be subject to fines and other penalties consistent with law in
the event of said future violation.
   (C)   Additional dwelling units which include kitchens and bathrooms, that
were or have been installed by current or previous owner must be removed to the
satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.089 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If 90 days has passed after notification, the Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to issue any Summons or complaint for any violation of any
ordinance, statute or regulation against the owner and/or occupant of the
residential building or portion thereof wherein the violation exists.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.090 BOARD OF APPEAL. 
   Board of Appeal as provided in the International Property Maintenance Code
shall, review all decisions made by the Code Official. Decisions of the Code
Official may be appealed to the Board within five days of the denial by the
Code Official of the occupancy certificate and hearing shall be held within 14
days of request for appeal.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
150.085 et seq. shall be subject to the penalties authorized by the Loup City
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 633, passed 7-7-2009)
CHAPTER 151: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
Zoning Regulations
   
151.01   Zoning regulations and map; adopted
   
151.02   Manufactured homes; standards
Subdivisions and Additions
   
151.15   Subdivision regulations; adopted
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 151.01 ZONING REGULATIONS AND MAP; ADOPTED.
   The Zoning Ordinance, consisting of Sections 1 - 20, Districts A, R-1, R-2,
C-1, C-2, I, GWP and Sections 21, 22, and 23 of the Zoning Ordinance, are
hereby amended, including the official zoning map of the corporate limits of
the City of Loup City, Nebraska. These chapters together shall be known as the
Zoning Ordinance of the City of Loup City and they are adopted in the form as
presented and shown as part of the Loup City Comprehensive Plan for 2005 -
2015. The Zoning Ordinance is hereby incorporated by reference as though
printed in full herein. Copies of the Zoning Ordinance shall be kept on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(1990 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 441, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 561, passed 10-22-2002;
Ord. 603, passed 1-3-2006; Ord. 742, passed 2-17-2015)
§ 151.02 MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted, if the manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280 et seq.
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development;
or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(1990 Code, § 11-102) (Ord. 508, passed 10-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 151.15 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   The Subdivision Regulations are hereby revised in their entirety and they
shall now consist of Sections 1 - 17. These chapters together shall be known as
the Subdivision Regulations of the City of Loup City and they are adopted in
the form as presented and shown as part of the Loup City Comprehensive Plan for
2005 - 2015. The Subdivision Regulations are hereby incorporated by reference
as though printed in full herein. Copies of the Subdivision Regulations shall
be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by
any member of the public during office hours.
(1990 Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 440, passed 6-6-1995; Ord. 604, passed 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Local Administrator; responsibilities and additional responsibilities
   
152.05   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
152.06   Interpretation as minimum requirements
   
152.07   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.08   Conflicting ordinances; amendments
   
152.09   Definitions
Permits; Applications
   
152.15   Permits required
   
152.16   Development permit applications review
   
152.17   All applications review
   
152.18   Subdivision applications
Requirements and Exceptions
   
152.30   Water and sewage systems
   
152.31   Storage of material and equipment
   
152.32   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
152.33   Variance procedures
   
152.34   Nonconforming use
   
152.35   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.36   Appeal of permit denial
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022,
R.R.S., 1943 (as amended), assigned the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt floodplain management regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the Mayor and City Council of
the City of Loup City, Nebraska ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the City of Loup City, Nebraska, are subject to inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses.  These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and/or
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
152.02(A) by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.04 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; RESPONSIBILITIES AND ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Responsibilities generally.  The City Clerk hereby has these added
responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the City of Loup City
now in force or hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision, or building
codes.
   (B)   Additional responsibilities. The City Clerk shall be appointed to
these additional responsibilities by resolution of the Governing Body, and his
or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory
service. During temporary absence or disability of the City Clerk, the
Governing Body of the city shall designate an acting administrator.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.05 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   The Governing Body of the City of Loup City hereby designates the current
Flood Hazard Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map which is effective as of the
date of May 16, 2008, as the official map to be used in determining those areas
of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.06 INTERPRETATION AS MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Governing Body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.07 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City of Loup City or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.08 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or parts of
ordinances. The Governing Body of the City of Loup City may, from time to time,
amend this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the National Flood
Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 Nebraska Floodplain Management Act.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of "flooding").
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD.  The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of
annual occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. This term, for other than new construction or
substantial improvements under the coastal Barrier Resources Act, Pub. L. No.
97-348, includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds, not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
PERMITS; APPLICATIONS
§ 152.15 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   Required. Within special flood hazard areas on the official map,
separate floodplain development permits are required for all new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
   (B)   Application. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant
shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for
that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations of
the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed
nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
City Clerk; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Clerk (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that he or she is
aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum levels will
result in premium reduction, especially in the case of nonresidential
floodproofing when a minus one-foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating
the structure for the policy premium).
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.16 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Clerk shall review all development permit applications to determine
if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from flooding and
that all necessary permits have been received as required by federal or state
law.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.17 ALL APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Clerk, in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
152.09) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met:
      (1)   Prior to designation of a floodway. That until a floodway has been
designated, no development or substantial improvement may be permitted within
the identified floodplain unless the applicant has demonstrated that the
proposed development or substantial improvement, when combined with all other
existing and reasonably anticipated developments or substantial improvements,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any location.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division are satisfied.
Such certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
      (4)   Requirement for all new construction and substantial improvements.
That fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage.
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations, and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side.
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community's official map on
sites, as specified in divisions (G)(1) through (4) below, be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the
provisions of division (F) of this section:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community's official map, that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) of this section, be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
   (I)   (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community's official map either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.18 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The Governing Body of the city shall review all subdivision applications and
other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 152.30 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.31 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.32 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The Governing Body of the city will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The
city will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Office (Nebraska Department of Natural Resources) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.33 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the City of Loup City shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168.01 through 23-168.04; Neb. RS 19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area; and
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles:
         (a)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (b)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances are as follows:
      (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E)(2) through (E)(5) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.34 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Clerk in writing of instances of nonconforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.35 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existent easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.36 APPEAL OF PERMIT DENIAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the City
Clerk, the applicant may apply for the permit or variance directly to the Board
of Appeals.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 621, passed 3-4-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND VACATIONS
         
III.   BONDS
         
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        -           Granting a natural gas transmission and distribution
                     franchise to Kansas-Nebraska Natural Gas Company, Inc.
(1990 Code, § 10-501)
-        -           Granting an electric power and light franchise to North
                     Central Nebraska Rural Public Power District
(1990 Code, § 10-601)
605      3-7-2006    Granting gas transmission and distribution franchise to
                     Kinder Morgan, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing 5.24 acres, more or less, being part of the north
613      8-7-2007    1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 17, Township 15 North, Range
                     14 West of the 6th Principal Meridian
                     Vacating the westerly 8 feet of the easterly 43 feet of
629      11-18-2008  13th Street as it lies between the southwesterly right-of-
                     way of Nebraska State Highway 92 and "O" Street containing
                     .06 acres, more or less
868      4-6-2021    Vacating the alley running east and west through Block 7
870      7-6-2021    Vacating a section of 13th Street running between Block 32
                     and 33
                    
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Issuance of street improvement bond anticipation notes in
625      - -2008     the amount of $500,000 for the payment of costs in
                     connection with the construction of street improvements in
                     Street Improvement Districts Nos. 2008-1 and 2008-2
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning Lots 1, 2 and 3, Obermiller Stanczyk Addition
626      9-2-2008    from District A - Agricultural District to C-2 Highway
                     Commercial District
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1990 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite            Code Section
3-501 - 3-514           34.21
9-642.01                110.46
9-646                   110.47
10-101 - 10-143         33.16
10-606 - 10-612         33.16
11-101                  32.02
11-103 - 11-118         32.01
12-401 - 12-403         34.18
13-403                  93.013
13-503                  33.02
13-504                  33.03
13-505                  33.03
                        33.04,
13-506                  33.06,
                        33.07
13-507                  33.04
                        33.05,
13-508                  33.48,
                        33.49
13-509                  33.05,
                        33.49
13-509.01               33.06
13-509.02               33.06
13-511                  33.06
13-518 - 13-522         33.04 -
                        33.07
13-519                  31.07
13-606                  33.12
13-2016.01              51.15
13-2020                 51.19
16-318(3)               32.19
16-405                  33.11
17-103                  30.03
17-104                  30.03,
                        30.04
17-105                  30.34
17-106                  30.34
                        30.16,
                        32.22,
17-107                  32.23,
                        32.27 -
                        32.29
                        30.17,
17-108.02               31.20,
                        32.16,
                        32.40
17-110 - 17-114         30.01
17-114                  51.17
17-117                  30.01
17-119                  32.29
                        32.22,
17-121                  32.23,
                        34.16,
                        91.01
17-123                  51.17,
                        90.004
17-129                  130.006
17-130 - 17-132         150.030
17-134                  110.01,
                        110.02
17-138                  90.008
17-147                  32.24,
                        34.40
17-148                  30.02
17-207                  51.17
17-208                  91.02
17-209.02               32.40
17-213                  32.22,
                        32.23
17-214                  32.29
17-256                  90.004
17-405                  32.25
17-502                  11.01
17-503                  93.005
17-503.01               93.005
                        10.99,
17-505                  30.60,
                        32.24
17-509                  93.063
17-510                  93.065
17-510 - 17-512         93.063
17-511                  93.061,
                        93.062
17-512                  93.064
17-522                  93.035
17-523                  93.035
17-524                  93.061
                        33.60,
17-525                  33.62 -
                        33.64,
                        110.01
                        90.020 -
                        90.022,
17-526                  90.024,
                        90.027,
                        90.029,
                        90.036
17-528.03               110.30
17-531                  52.001
17-534                  52.001
17-536                  52.021
                        52.003,
                        52.015,
17-537                  52.018,
                        52.019,
                        52.023,
                        52.024
17-538                  50.04
17-539                  52.022
17-540                  33.31
17-541                  32.27
17-542                  52.016,
                        52.017
17-543                  32.27
                        90.002,
17-547                  90.009,
                        90.028
17-548                  90.027,
                        90.028
17-549                  92.31
                        92.25 -
17-550                  92.29,
                        150.030
17-555                  93.004,
                        130.027
                        92.30,
                        92.31,
                        92.46,
17-556                  92.47,
                        92.60,
                        130.006,
                        130.040,
                        130.042
17-557                  93.030,
                        93.015
                        93.003,
17-557.01               93.008,
                        93.015,
                        93.032
                        93.052,
17-558                  93.068,
                        93.069
                        93.052,
17-559                  93.068,
                        93.069
17-563                  130.023
                        93.002,
17-567                  93.053,
                        93.080
17-568                  32.25
17-568.01               32.25,
                        33.11
17-568.02               33.11
17-602                  31.12
17-604                  32.01
17-605                  32.18
17-606(2)               32.19
17-606 - 17-609         32.19
17-607                  33.32
17-608                  33.33
17-609                  33.33
17-610                  32.20
17-611                  32.41
17-612                  32.40
                        30.63,
17-613                  30.66 -
                        30.68,
                        33.11
                        10.15,
17-614                  30.64,
                        30.65,
                        30.69
17-616                  30.40,
                        30.65
17-701                  33.01
17-702                  33.31,
                        33.47
17-706                  33.09
17-708                  33.10
17-710                  33.30
17-711                  33.14
17-714                  33.13
17-715                  33.13
17-718                  34.40
17-720                  33.15
17-919                  32.25
17-925.01               50.04
17-952                  34.23
17-953                  34.40,
                        93.009
17-953.01               93.009
17-954                  93.009
17-1001                 150.030
17-1633                 33.48
17-1751                 93.011
18-132                  92.20
18-305 - 18-312         32.41
18-412.01               33.11
18-503                  50.04
18-1001 - 18-1006       93.005
18-1208                 33.60
18-1213                 33.50
18-1701                 32.18
                        10.99,
                        91.04,
                        91.15,
18-1720                 91.16,
                        93.003,
                        130.020 -
                        130.022
18-1722                 10.99
18-1736                 71.30,
                        71.31
                        71.31,
18-1737                 71.32,
                        71.38
18-1738                 71.30,
                        71.33
18-1738.01              71.34
18-1738.02              71.33,
                        71.34
                        71.31,
18-1739                 71.32,
                        71.35
18-1740                 71.36
18-1741                 71.37
18-1741.01              71.30,
                        71.38
18-1741.04              71.38
18-1741.06              71.38
18-1743                 150.032
18-1748                 93.067
18-1755                 93.009,
                        93.012
18-1756                 33.11
18-1801 - 18-1805       33.16
18-2101 et seq.         34.24
18-2102.01              34.22
18-2201 et seq.         110.31
18-2715                 34.22
19-901 - 19-914         34.15
19-902                  92.20,
                        151.02
19-903                  34.22
19-907 - 19-910         34.15
19-912                  152.33
19-916                  34.22
19-922                  92.20
19-926 - 19-929         34.22
19-930 - 19-933         34.22
19-1101                 32.19
19-1102                 32.18
19-1103                 32.18,
                        32.19
19-1305                 52.001
19-1309                 33.45,
                        33.46
19-1309 - 19-1312       33.45
19-2101 - 19-2106       51.01
19-2106                 51.16
19-2427                 93.010
                        93.011,
19-2428 - 19-2431       93.061,
                        93.063,
                        93.066
19-2701                 52.003,
                        52.004
19-2901 - 19-2909       33.12
19-5401 et seq.         91.20
20-301 - 20-322         94.09
20-301 - 20-344         94.01
23-122                  32.18
23-168.01 - 23-168.04   152.33
25-505.01               31.18
25-1801                 50.03
25-21,275 - 25-21,278   50.03
Ch. 28, Art. 3          111.16
Ch. 28, Art. 4          111.16
28-401                  94.02
28-431                  130.026
28-519                  92.03,
                        130.027
28-523                  130.024
Ch. 28, Art. 7          111.16
Ch. 28, Art. 8          111.16
28-904                  130.001
28-906                  90.038,
                        130.002
28-907                  92.09,
                        130.003
                        92.02,
                        92.03,
28-908                  92.06,
                        92.10,
                        130.004
Ch. 28, Art. 10         111.16
28-1008                 90.008
28-1009                 90.008
28-1009.01              130.008
28-1012                 90.008
28-1014                 90.033
Ch. 28, Art. 11         111.16
Ch. 28, Art. 12         111.16
28-1204                 130.041
28-1229                 92.60
28-1241                 92.45,
                        92.46
28-1242                 92.47
28-1244                 92.46
28-1245                 92.46
28-1321                 130.020 -
                        130.022
28-1322                 130.005
28-1420                 110.60
28-1420 - 28-1429       110.61
28-1421                 110.60
28-1422                 110.61
28-1423                 110.62
28-1424                 110.63
28-1425                 110.63,
                        110.66
28-1426                 110.64
28-1428                 110.65
28-1429                 110.66
29-422 - 29-429         90.008
29-830 - 29-835         150.078
29-4001.01              130.081
29-4003                 130.081
29-4016                 130.081
29-4017                 130.082
31-1001 - 31-1022       152.01
Ch. 32                  31.01,
                        31.05
32-101                  31.14
32-102                  31.12
32-109                  30.17
32-4,147                31.01
32-405                  31.07,
                        31.18
32-505                  31.05
32-554                  31.14
32-558                  31.16
32-559                  31.07
32-560                  30.15
32-561                  30.15
32-562                  31.18
32-567 - 32-570         31.18
32-569                  30.15
32-574                  31.18
32-603                  30.17
32-604                  30.17
32-607                  31.09
32-608                  31.08,
                        31.09
32-615                  31.09
32-616 - 32-618         31.09
32-621                  31.09
32-625(2)               31.09
32-627                  31.09
32-628                  31.09
32-629                  31.09,
                        31.18
32-630                  31.09,
                        31.18
32-710                  31.09
32-918                  31.21
32-952 - 32-959         31.07
32-1033                 31.16
32-1301 - 32-1309       31.18
32-1304                 31.18
32-1307                 31.18
32-1524                 31.21
32-1525                 31.21
33-139.01               34.42
33-141                  32.19
35-101 - 35-103         34.42
35-102                  32.24
35-106                  33.60,
                        33.61
35-108                  32.24,
                        34.42
35-520                  92.09
                        70.004,
Ch. 39                  72.99,
                        73.99
39-307                  130.021
39-311                  70.035,
                        70.036
39-6,294                93.058
44-4303                 35.01
44-4304                 35.01
45-104.01               93.061
45-623                  33.17
46-1212                 93.014
48-1503                 33.11
49-801(16)              10.05
49-1408                 32.41
49-1425                 32.41
49-1499.04              32.41
49-14,102               32.41
49-14,103               32.41
49-14,105               32.41
49-14,106               32.41
51-215                  33.31
51-216                  33.31
52-601.01 - 52-605      130.026
Ch. 53, Art. 1          110.46
53-101.01               111.20
53-103                  111.01
53-116.01               111.65
53-118                  111.51
53-123.12               111.19
53-124                  111.19
53-124.01               111.19
53-124(5)               111.19,
                        111.21
53-124(5)(C),(H)        111.50
53-124.12               111.21
53-124.12(1)            111.21
53-124.12(3)            111.21
53-124.12(4)            111.21
53-124.12(6)            111.21
53-125                  111.16,
                        111.19
53-129                  111.19
53-131                  111.17,
                        111.19
53-131(2)               111.19
                        33.60,
53-132                  111.17,
                        111.19
53-132(4)               111.19
53-133                  111.03,
                        111.19
                        111.17,
53-134                  111.19,
                        111.20,
                        111.22
53-134.03               111.19,
                        111.40
53-134.04               111.19,
                        111.66
53-135                  111.18
53-135.01               111.18,
                        111.19
53-142.15               111.03
53-148                  111.15
53-160                  33.60
53-167.02               111.42
53-167.03               111.42
                        111.02,
53-168.06               111.20,
                        111.52,
                        111.56
53-174                  111.38
53-175                  111.54
53-177                  111.03
53-177.01               111.03
53-178                  111.04
53-179                  111.50
53-180                  111.40
53-183                  111.37
53-184                  111.39
53-186                  130.055
53-186(1)               111.53
53-186(2)               111.53,
                        130.055
53-186.01               111.53
53-194.03               111.54
53-1,101                111.35
53-1,102                111.36
53-1,121                111.55
54-601                  90.021
54-602                  90.021
54-603                  90.024,
                        90.025
54-617                  90.050
54-618                  90.051
54-619                  90.052
54-620                  90.053
                        70.004,
Ch. 60                  72.99,
                        73.99
60-169                  130.026
Ch. 60, Art. 3          70.001
60-301                  33.50,
                        72.01
60-311.14               71.32
60-323                  70.001
60-376                  130.026
60-699                  73.06
60-3,104                33.50
Ch. 60, Art. 4          70.001
60-4,126                72.02
60-658.01               70.061
60-601 - 60-6,383       73.01
                        70.016 -
                        70.018,
                        70.021,
                        70.023,
                        70.026,
                        70.045,
                        70.046,
60-680                  70.077,
                        70.078,
                        71.01 -
                        71.06,
                        71.08,
                        71.10,
                        71.12 -
                        71.14
60-682.01               70.061
60-696                  70.002
60-697                  70.002
60-699                  72.07
60-6,109                70.021
60-6,119 - 60-6,121     70.045,
                        70.046
60-6,127                70.049
60-6,129                70.047,
                        70.048
60-6,130                70.047
60-6,133                70.023
60-6,134.01             70.061,
                        70.062
60-6,146 - 60-6,154     70.022
60-6,149                70.025
60-6,151                70.024
60-6,159                70.020
60-6,160                70.018
60-6,161                70.021
60-6,161 - 60-6,163     70.019
60-6,165                71.14
                        71.07,
60-6,166                71.09,
                        92.05
                        71.01,
60-6,167                71.02,
                        71.11
60-6,183                92.08
60-6,184                92.07
60-6,190                70.060
60-6,196                130.056
60-6,201                130.056
60-6,203                130.056
60-6,211.01             130.056
60-6,211.02             130.056
60-6,211.08             111.53,
                        130.055
60-6,213                70.078
60-6,288 - 60-6,294     150.045
60-6,296                150.045
60-6,355                72.01
60-6,356                72.02
60-6,357                72.03
60-6,358                72.04
60-6,359                72.05
60-6,360                72.06
60-6,361                72.07
60-6,381                Ch. 73
60-6,681                70.015
60-6,683                70.076,
                        70.078
60-6,267(1)             70.003
60-6,267(2)             70.003
60-6,267(3)             70.003
60-6,268(3)             70.003
60-1901 - 60-1909       130.026
60-1902                 130.026
60-1903                 130.026
60-1911                 130.026
60-2410                 130.026
60-3113                 71.31
66-489                  33.60
66-489.02               33.60
66-4,140                33.60
66-4,145                33.60
66-4,146                33.60
70-624.04               32.41
70-1601                 50.06
70-1601 - 70-1615       50.05
70-1602 et seq.         50.02
70-1608 through 70-1614 50.02
71-1557                 151.02
71-1576                 34.20
71-4401 - 71-4412       90.024
71-4406                 90.006,
                        90.030
71-4407                 90.031
71-4408                 90.027,
                        90.028
71-4412                 90.024
71-4603                 130.026
76-704 - 76-724         93.052
77-408                  33.60
77-1343                 93.066
77-1601                 33.49
77-1632                 33.49
77-1633                 33.49
77-2201 - 77-2215       32.19
77-2304                 33.15
77-2337                 33.31
77-2341                 33.33
77-2362 - 77-2364       33.32
77-2366                 33.15,
                        33.32
77-2386 - 77-2397       33.32
77-2602                 33.60
77-2701 - 77-27,135.01  33.51
77-2704.24              33.60
77-27,142 - 77-27,148   33.51
77-3442                 33.45,
                        33.47
77-3444                 31.07
81-145 - 81-162         33.11
81-502                  92.20
81-506                  32.24,
                        34.53
                        32.24,
81-512                  34.50,
                        92.22
81-520.01               92.31,
                        92.32
81-829.51               33.07
81-1438 - 81-1446       32.15
81-2005                 70.075
81-2104                 150.076
81-3423                 93.014
81-3445                 93.014
81-3449                 93.014
81-3453                 93.014
84-712                  32.18,
                        32.19
84-712 - 84-712.09      32.18,
                        32.19
84-1408                 30.32
84-1409                 30.32 ,
                        33.48
84-1409(1)              30.31
84-1409(2)              30.30
84-1410                 30.33,
                        30.42
                        30.32,
84-1411                 30.36,
                        30.41
84-1412                 30.39,
                        30.42
                        30.32,
84-1413                 30.39,
                        30.40
86-329 - 86-331         50.05
86-704                  33.60
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code Section 2009 Code Section
1990 Code Section 2009 Code Section
1-101             30.01
1-102             30.02
1-103             30.03
1-104             30.04
1-105             30.15
1-106             30.16
1-107             30.17
1-201             32.15 ,
                  32.23
1-202             32.16
1-203             32.17
1-204             32.18
1-208             32.20
1-210             32.22
1-211             32.23
1-212             32.24
1-213             32.25
1-214             32.27
1-215             32.28
1-216             32.29
1-301             32.01
1-302             32.02
1-401             11.01
1-501             30.30
1-502             30.31
1-503             30.32
1-504             30.33
1-505             30.36
1-506             30.39
1-507             30.40
1-508             30.41
1-509             30.42
1-510             30.43
1-511             30.44
1-512             30.45
1-513             30.46
1-514             30.34
1-601             30.60
1-602             30.61
1-603             30.62
1-604             30.63
1-605             30.64
1-606             30.65
1-607             30.66
1-608             30.67
1-609             30.68
1-610             30.69
1-701             31.01
1-702             31.02
1-703             31.03
1-704             31.04
1-705             31.05
1-706             31.06
1-707             31.07
1-708             31.08
1-709             31.09
1-710             31.10
1-711             31.11
1-712             31.12
1-713             31.13
1-714             31.14
1-715             31.15
1-716             31.16
1-717             31.17
1-718             31.18
1-719             31.19
1-720             31.20
1-721             31.21
1-801             33.01
1-801.01          33.02
1-802             33.03
1-803             33.04
1-804             33.05
1-804.01          33.06
1-804.02          33.07
1-805             33.08
1-806             33.09
1-807             33.45
1-809             33.46
1-812             33.47
1-813             33.10
1-814             33.11
1-815             33.12
1-816             33.13
1-817             33.14
1-818             33.30
1-819             33.31
1-820             33.32
1-821             33.33
1-822             33.16
1-823             33.50
1-824             33.48
1-825             33.49
1-826             33.15
1-827             33.51
1-901             32.40
1-902             32.41
1-903             32.42
1-1001            35.01
2-101             34.01
2-201             34.15
2-202             34.16
2-204             34.18
2-205.01          34.20
2-206             34.21
2-207             34.22
2-208             34.23
2-209             34.24
3-101             52.001
3-102             52.002
3-103             52.003
3-104             52.004
3-105             52.005
3-106             52.015
3-107             52.016
3-108             52.017
3-109             52.040
3-110             52.041
3-111             52.042
3-112             52.043
3-113             52.018
3-114             52.019
3-115             52.020
3-116             52.021
3-117             52.022
3-118             52.023
3-119             52.024
3-120             52.025
3-121             52.026
3-122             52.060
3-123             52.061
3-124             52.062
3-125             52.063
3-126             52.064
3-127             52.065
3-128             52.066
3-129             52.067
3-130             52.068
3-131             52.069
3-132             52.070
3-133             52.071
3-134             52.072
3-135             52.073
3-136             52.074
3-201             53.001
3-202             53.002
3-203             53.003
3-204             53.004
3-205             53.005
3-206             53.116
3-207             53.117
3-208             53.118
3-209             53.119
3-210             53.120
3-211             53.121
3-212             53.122
3-213             53.123
3-214             53.124
3-215             53.125
3-216             53.006
3-217             53.007
3-218             53.008
3-219             53.009
3-220             53.126
3-221             53.020
3-222             53.021
3-223             53.022
3-224             53.023
3-225             53.035
3-226             53.036
3-227             53.037
3-228             53.038
3-229             53.039
3-230             53.041
3-231             53.042
3-232             53.040
3-233             53.056
3-234             53.057
3-235             53.058
3-236             53.115
3-237             53.055
3-238             53.059
3-239             53.060
3-240             53.061
3-241             53.062
3-242             53.063
3-243             53.064
3-244             53.065
3-245             53.066
3-246             53.067
3-247             53.080
3-248             53.081
3-249             53.082
3-250             53.083
3-251             53.084
3-252             53.085
3-253             53.086
3-254             53.087
3-255             53.088
3-256             53.010
3-257             53.100
3-258             53.101
3-259             53.102
3-260             53.103
3-261             53.105
3-262             53.999
3-263             53.104
3-301             50.01
3-302             50.02
3-303             50.03
3-304             50.04
3-305             50.05
3-306             50.06
3-401             34.40
3-402             34.41
3-403             34.42
3-404             34.43
3-405             34.44
3-406             34.45
3-407             34.46
3-408             34.47
3-409             34.48
3-410             34.49
3-411             34.50
3-412             34.51
3-413             34.52
3-414             34.53
3-601             51.01
3-602             51.02
3-603             51.03
4-101             91.01
4-102             91.02
4-104             91.03
4-201             51.15
4-202             51.15
4-203             51.15
4-203.01          51.15
4-204             51.16
4-205             51.17
4-206             51.35
4-207             51.36
4-208             51.37
4-209             51.38
4-210             51.39
4-211             51.40
4-212             51.42
4-213             51.18
4-214             51.19
4-301             91.15
4-302             91.16
5-101             70.004
5-201             70.015
5-202             70.016
5-203             70.017
5-204             70.018
5-205             70.019
5-206             70.020
5-207             70.021
5-208             70.022
5-209             70.023
5-210             70.024
5-211             70.025
5-212             70.026
5-213             70.045
5-214             70.046
5-215             70.035
5-216             70.036
5-217             70.048
5-218             70.049
5-219             70.027
5-220             70.060
5-221             70.047
5-222             70.001
5-223             70.061
5-224             70.062
5-225             70.003
5-301             70.075
5-302             70.076
5-303             70.077
5-304             70.078
5-401             71.01
5-402             71.02
5-403             71.03
5-404             71.04
5-405             71.05
5-406             71.06
5-407             71.07
5-408             71.08
5-409             71.09
5-410             71.10
5-411             71.11
5-412             71.12
5-413             71.31
5-413.01          71.32
5-413.02          71.30
5-413.03          71.33
5-413.04          71.34
5-413.05          71.35
5-413.06          71.36
5-413.07          71.37,
                  71.99
5-413.08          71.38
5-414             71.13
5-415             71.14
5-416             71.15
5-501             72.01
5-502             72.02
5-503             72.03
5-504             72.04
5-505             72.05
5-506             72.06
5-507             72.07
5-508             72.99
5-509             72.08
6-101             90.024
6-101.01          90.025
6-102             90.024
6-104             90.020
6-107             90.028
6-108             90.007
6-109             90.029
6-110             90.038
6-111             90.033
6-112             90.032
6-113             90.021
6-113.01          90.037
6-114             90.036
6-115             90.027
6-116             90.006,
                  90.030
6-117             90.033
6-118             90.050
6-119             90.051
6-120             90.052
6-121             90.053
6-201             90.002
6-202             90.004
6-203             90.008
6-204             90.008
6-205             90.005
6-206             90.001
6-207             90.002,
                  90.012
6-208             90.010
6-301             130.001
6-302             130.002
6-303             130.003
6-304             130.004
6-305             130.005
6-306             130.020
6-307             130.021
6-308             130.022
6-309             130.023
6-311             130.040
6-312             130.041
6-313             130.042
6-314             130.027
6-315             130.006
6-316             130.007
6-317             130.026
6-318             130.055
6-319             130.028
6-320             130.024
6-321             130.025
6-322             130.008
6-323             130.056
6-401             130.065
6-402             130.066
6-403             130.067
6-404             130.068
6-405             130.069
6-406             130.070
7-101             92.01
7-102             92.02
7-103             92.03
7-104             92.04
7-105             92.05
7-106             92.06
7-107             92.07
7-108             92.08
7-109             92.09
7-110             92.10
7-201             92.20
7-202             92.21
7-203             92.22
7-204             92.23
7-205             92.24
7-206             92.25
7-207             92.26
7-208             92.27
7-209             92.28
7-210             92.29
7-211             92.30
7-212             92.31
7-213             92.32
7-301             92.45
7-302             92.46
7-303             92.47
7-401             92.60
8-101             93.001
8-102             93.002
8-103             93.003
8-104             93.004
8-105             93.005
8-106             93.006
8-107             93.007
8-108             93.008
8-109             93.009
8-110             93.010
8-111             93.011
8-112             93.012
8-113             93.013
8-114             93.014
8-201             93.030
8-202             93.031
8-203             93.032
8-204             93.033
8-205             93.034
8-206             93.035
8-207             93.036
8-208             93.037
8-301             93.050
8-302             93.051
8-303             93.052
8-304             93.053
8-305             93.054
8-306             93.055
8-307             93.056
8-308             93.057
8-309             93.058
8-310             93.059
8-311             93.060
8-312             93.061
8-313             93.062
8-314             93.063
8-315             93.064
8-316             93.065
8-317             93.066
8-318             93.067
8-319             93.068
8-320             93.069
8-401             93.080
9-101             150.015
9-102             150.016
9-103             150.017
9-104             150.018
9-105             150.019
9-107             150.001
9-201             150.030
9-202             150.031
9-203             150.032
9-301             150.045
9-302             150.046
9-401             150.060
9-402             150.061
9-403             150.062
9-404             150.063
9-405             150.064
9-406             150.065
9-501             150.075
10-101            111.01
10-102            111.02
10-103            111.03
10-104            111.04
10-105            111.15
10-106            111.16
10-107            111.17
10-108            111.18
10-109            111.19
10-110            111.35
10-111            111.36
10-112            111.40
10-113            111.37
10-114            111.38
10-115            111.39
10-116            111.41
10-117            111.50
10-118            111.51
10-119            111.52
10-120            111.53
10-121            111.54
10-122            111.55
10-123            111.65
10-124            111.66
10-125            111.20
10-126            111.21
10-127            111.22
10-201            110.01
10-202            110.02
10-203            110.03
10-204            110.04
10-205            110.05
10-301            33.60
10-302            33.61
10-303            33.62
10-304            33.63
10-305            33.64
10-401            110.15
10-501            T.S.O. I
10-502            50.15
10-601            110.30,
                  T.S.O. I
10-602            110.31
10-602.01         110.32
10-603            110.33
10-701            110.45
10-702            110.46
10-703            110.47
10-801            94.01
10-802            94.02
10-803            94.03
10-804            94.04
10-805            94.05
10-806            94.06
10-807            94.07
10-808            94.08
10-809            94.09
11-101            151.01
11-102            151.02
11-201            151.15
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
        - -         T.S.O. I
344      10-10-1989  110.45
349      3-27-1990   110.31
350      4-24-1990   10.05
353      10-18-1990  33.62
354      11-14-1990  33.62
364      8-6-1991    111.50
                     110.01,
366      8-20-1991   110.04,
                     110.05
372      10-22-1991  130.023
378      5-19-1992   70.001
379      5-19-1992   71.31 -
                     71.38
380      5-19-1992   111.39
381      5-19-1992   111.21
382      5-19-1992   111.17
383      5-19-1992   110.46
384      5-19-1992   110.47
385      5-19-1992   130.023
                     53.001 -
                     53.010,
                     53.020 -
                     53.023,
                     53.035 -
                     53.042,
                     53.055 -
389      11-17-1992  53.067,
                     53.080 -
                     53.088,
                     53.100 -
                     53.105,
                     53.115 -
                     53.126,
                     53.999
390      11-17-1992  52.041,
                     52.042
401      4-6-1993    53.004
                     51.18,
408      9-7-1993    51.39,
                     51.40,
                     51.42
410      10-5-1993   110.33
413      1-4-1994    52.060 -
                     52.074
414      12-7-1993   51.42,
                     92.31
415      3-1-1994    110.31
420      10-4-1994   32.17
422      1-3-1995    94.01 -
                     94.09
425      3-7-1995    30.33
426      3-7-1995    30.65
427      3-7-1995    33.02
428      3-7-1995    33.06
429      3-7-1995    34.22
432      3-7-1995    51.15
433      3-7-1995    130.024
434      3-7-1995    92.32
435      3-7-1995    93.012
436      3-7-1995    93.013
437      3-7-1995    111.21
438      3-7-1995    71.36
440      6-6-1995    151.15
441      6-6-1995    151.01
442      7-11-1995   130.025
447      3-5-1996    30.34
448      3-5-1996    33.01
449      3-5-1996    33.05
450      3-5-1996    33.09
451      3-5-1996    34.22
452      3-5-1996    34.15
453      3-5-1996    50.05
455      3-5-1996    93.005
456      3-5-1996    93.009
457      3-5-1996    93.062
458      3-5-1996    111.54
459      5-7-1996    130.025
462      7-2-1996    130.007
463      9-25-1996   110.32
467      12-17-1996  52.043
469      3-3-1998    33.11
471      5-5-1998    34.24
472      5-5-1998    90.037
473      8-4-1998    91.21
474      8-4-1998    30.17
475      8-4-1998    31.09
476      8-4-1998    33.03
477      8-4-1998    33.04
478      8-4-1998    33.05
479      8-4-1998    33.47
480      9-15-1998   33.48
481      9-15-1998   33.49
482      9-15-1998   33.45
484      9-15-1998   33.32
485      9-15-1998   33.15
486      9-15-1998   34.22
488      9-15-1998   70.061
489      9-15-1998   70.062
493      12-1-1998   33.51
496      6-22-1999   93.005
497      6-22-1999   93.014
498      6-22-1999   150.001
499      6-22-1999   110.60,
                     110.66
500      7-6-1999    90.025
501      7-6-1999    130.008
502      7-6-1999    130.003
503      7-6-1999    110.47
506      10-5-1999   130.056
507      10-5-1999   71.31
508      10-5-1999   151.02
510      11-2-1999   51.19
511      11-2-1999   50.06
512      11-2-1999   31.18
517      5-2-2000    32.30
518      5-9-2000    111.21
519      5-9-2000    111.53
520      5-9-2000    111.19
521      5-9-2000    31.16
522      5-9-2000    33.49
523      7-5-2000    33.48
524      7-5-2000    33.07
525      7-5-2000    130.026
526      7-5-2000    130.055
527      8-1-2000    34.20
531      9-5-2000    93.014
534      1-2-2001    150.015 -
                     150.019
536      6-5-2001    70.003
537      6-5-2001    33.03
543      7-3-2001    71.33
549      4-2-2002    53.118
556      8-6-2002    52.095
557      8-6-2002    52.095
560      10-8-2002   71.13
561      10-22-2002  151.01
566      3-4-2003    52.041
567      3-4-2003    53.118
568      3-4-2003    51.41
570      6-3-2003    35.01
574      6-3-2003    70.002
578      7-1-2003    71.30
579      7-1-2003    71.31
580      7-1-2003    71.32
581      7-1-2003    71.33
582      7-1-2003    71.34
583      7-1-2003    71.35
584      7-1-2003    71.36
585      7-1-2003    71.37
585      7-1-2003    71.99
586      7-1-2003    71.38
588      4-20-2004   50.07
                     90.024,
594      5- -2005    90.029,
                     90.065
600      12-6-2005   52.041
601      12-6-2005   53.118
602      12-6-2005   30.34
603      1-3-2006    151.01
604      1-3-2006    151.15
605      3-7-2006    T.S.O. I
606      6-6-2006    52.085
612      3-1-2007    90.024
613      8-7-2007    T.S.O. II
614      8-7-2007    35.10
616      9-4-2007    72.02
617      9-4-2007    130.080 -
                     130.082
619      1-8-2008    35.20
620      3-4-2008    32.26
                     152.01 -
                     152.09,
                     152.15 -
621      3-4-2008    152.18,
                     152.30 -
                     152.36,
                     152.99
623      5-6-2008    52.041
624      5-6-2008    53.118
625      - -2008     T.S.O. III
626      9-2-2008    T.S.O. IV
629      11-18-2008  T.S.O. II
631      7-7-2009    150.076
632      7-7-2009    150.077
                     150.085 -
633      7-7-2009    150.090,
                     150.999
634      7-7-2009    150.078,
                     150.079
635      6-2-2009    71.14
636      6-2-2009    130.026
639      7-7-2009    70.037
640      9-8-2009    130.023
                     72.01  -
669      11-8-2011   72.08 ,
                     72.99
682      7-3-2012    150.050 ,
                     150.051
692      12-4-2012   52.006
694      1-8-2013    30.34
701      8-6-2013    111.16
713      2-4-2014    52.106
722      5-6-2014    Adopting Ordinance
723      6-3-2014    130.023
735      1-6-2015    130.009
736      11-4-2014   72.01
739      2-3-2015    130.010
742      2-17-2015   151.01
745      4-7-2015    130.026
746      4-7-2015    31.09
747      4-7-2015    110.60 -
                     110.66
748      4-7-2015    30.01
749      4-7-2015    31.08
750      4-7-2015    111.37
751      4-7-2015    33.60
                     90.001 -
                     90.009,
                     90.020 -
754      6-2-2015    90.038,
                     90.050 -
                     90.053,
                     90.065,
                     90.999
                     91.04,
                     91.15 -
755      6-2-2015    91.18,
                     91.30 -
                     91.39
756      8-4-2015    70.027
757      8-4-2015    70.060
758      8-4-2015    51.18
759      8-4-2015    92.48
761      11-3-2015   72.02
763      10-6-2015   50.07
767      12-8-2015   90.024
769      12-8-2015   90.008
773      1-5-2016    111.42
774      1-5-2016    93.015
775      1-5-2016    111.03
776      1-5-2016    33.07
777      1-5-2016    50.02
780      2-4-2016    93.004
781      2-4-2016    91.16
782      2-4-2016    30.15
783      2-4-2016    31.18
784      2-4-2016    93.014
785      3-8-2016    34.18
786      3-8-2016    34.15
787      5-3-2016    10.99
                     90.001,
788      5-3-2016    91.010 -
                     90.012
792      7-7-2016    34.16
796      1-5-2017    111.16
797      1-5-2017    111.54
798      1-5-2017    111.56
799      1-5-2017    31.09
810      10-3-2017   92.33
812      1-4-2018    30.66
813      1-4-2018    34.22
814      1-4-2018    91.04
815      1-4-2018    130.080 -
                     130.082
816      1-4-2018    30.01
        1-4-2018    33.05
819      2-6-2018    93.005
820      2-6-2018    33.04
821      2-6-2018    33.05
822      2-6-2018    33.48
823      2-6-2018    33.11
824      2-6-2018    93.063
825      4-3-2018    51.18
832      2-5-2019    111.53
833      2-5-2019    111.19
834      2-5-2019    111.03
835      2-5-2019    130.026
837      4-2-2019    52.095
839      6-4-2019    52.041
840      6-4-2019    53.118
842      10-8-2019   91.16 -
                     91.18
844      1-7-2020    34.01
845      1-7-2020    33.49
846      1-7-2020    33.31
847      1-7-2020    31.18
848      1-7-2020    31.09
851      8-4-2020    52.043
853      11-3-2020   30.34
854      1-5-2021    33.17
855      1-5-2021    32.19
856      1-5-2020    32.18
857      1-5-2021    31.18
858      1-5-2021    34.22
859      1-5-2021    30.34
860      1-5-2021    111.16
861      1-5-2021    111.19
862      1-5-2021    111.65
863      2-2-2021    31.07
864      2-2-2021    30.32
865      2-2-2021    33.04
866      2-2-2021    31.21
867      2-2-2021    33.50
868      4-6-2021    T.S.O. II
870      7-6-2021    T.S.O. II
871      6-8-2021    33.60
872      8-3-2021    93.069
874      9-7-2021    93.080
875      12-7-2021   32.22,
                     32.23
876      12-7-2021   130.026
877      12-7-2021   150.032
878      12-7-2021   31.08
879      12-7-2021   32.18
880      12-7-2021   32.41
881      12-7-2021   51.16
882      12-7-2021   111.19
883      12-7-2021   33.48
884      12-7-2021   33.49
885      12-7-2021   30.42
886      12-7-2021   30.66
887      12-7-2021   33.05
888      12-7-2021   30.65
889      3-8-2022    130.010
890      3-8-2022    34.18
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
892      4-5-2022    51.15 -
                     51.19,
                     51.35 -
                     51.42
895      8-2-2022    91.20 -
                     91.26
897      10-4-2022   34.23
899      12-6-2022   33.51
900      12-6-2022   35.10
925      1-9-2024    30.01
926      1-9-2024    30.65
927      1-9-2024    33.48
928      1-9-2024    33.49
929      1-9-2024    70.005
931      3-5-2024    51.20
                     73.01 -
933      5-13-2024   73.07,
                     73.99
934      6-4-2024    72.02
937      10-8-2024   53.118
938      10-8-2024   52.041
                    
 
