LYONS, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 775, passed 11-12-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 766
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LYONS, NEBRASKA, AND
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES; PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLICATION OF SAID CODE IN BOOK FORM.
WHEREAS, Nebraska law empowers and authorizes the City to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, Nebraska law authorizes a general compilation, revision and
codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and permanent nature
and publication of such ordinance in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
LYONS, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Lyons, Nebraska.”
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
PARALLEL REFERENCES
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance shall be in full force and take effect from and
after its passage, approval, and publication in book form according to law.
Passed and approved this 21st day of May 2024.
_________________________________
Kyle Brink, Mayor
__________________________________
ATTEST: Whitney Anderson, City Clerk
(Seal)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Lyons
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lyons,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the City of
Lyons.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Burt County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified, or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the same,
in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate Seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official Corporate Seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk and shall bear the following inscription “City Seal, Lyons, Burt
County, Nebraska.” The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the said
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other
official papers issued by order of the City Council and countersigned by the
City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Organization
   
30.19   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.20   Qualifications; holding other elective office
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.45   Grant of power
   
30.46   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.47   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.48   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.49   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.50   Publication or posting
   
30.51   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.52   Amendments and revisions
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act.
      (2)   The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular
meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide general
election.
      (3)   The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1) The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council if
(a) the Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council members being equally
divided or (b) a majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of
one or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is
deemed to be a member of the City Council.
      (2)    The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill,
and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed
by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the City Council, in writing, touching any subject or
matter pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the City Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain,
as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be eligible
to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered
voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
City Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the City Council shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the City Council shall elect one of
its own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the City Council; and
all acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as
binding upon the City Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may create by ordinance
or resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 ORGANIZATION.
   Council members of this city shall take office, and commence their duties on
the first regular meeting in December following their election. The newly
elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together with
the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk
shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-elect
who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the city shall be represented by at least two City Council members. No person
shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her election an actual
resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and should any City
Council member move from the ward from which he or she was elected, his or her
office shall thereby become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 372, passed 11-7-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.19 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.20 QUALIFICATIONS; HOLDING OTHER ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the
city. No person shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or
holding an elective office for the reason that he or she has been elected or
appointed to or holds another elective office, unless that person is presently
serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective office described in
Article IV, § 1, of the Nebraska Constitution. A Legislator or an Article IV
elected office holder may simultaneously serve in another elective office which
is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a
public body. Whenever an incumbent of the Legislature or an Article IV elected
office assumes another elective office, except an elective office filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body, the
office first held by the incumbent shall be deemed vacant. Members of the City
Council shall hold no other employment with the city. Any Council member who
ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by this section or who has
been convicted of a crime while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
   (B)   The City Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications
of its members, subject to review by the courts.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 468, passed 2-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02 and 32-563
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.45 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 568, passed 1-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 30.46 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the City Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.47 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.46 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
§ 30.48 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Lyons, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.49 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the City Council shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
City Council shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
municipality which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 531, passed 1-3-1996; Ord. 569, passed 1-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 30.50 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   (A)   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within
15 days after they are passed in:
      (1)   Some newspaper published in the city, or if no paper is published
in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the city; or
      (2)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)
   (B)   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances
shall be sufficiently proven by a certificate under the City Seal from the City
Clerk, showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved, and when, and
in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and where the same
was posted.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
(Ord. 422, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.51 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council, without
submission to the voters of the city, shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 570, passed 1-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613 and 19-3701
§ 30.52 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed; except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 571, passed 1-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
31.05   City Clerk
   
31.06   City Treasurer
   
31.07   City Attorney
   
31.08   Police Chief
   
31.09   Police officers
   
31.10   City Utilities Superintendent
   
31.11   Zoning Inspector and Building Inspector
   
31.12   Civil Defense Director
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.25 and
33.26. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.26.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.04 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged in accordance with the authority granted to the City
Council by §
31.03.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.05 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.06(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
§ 31.06 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
City Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the City Treasurer fails to render his
or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the City Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds
against the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom
the bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. The City Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in
that year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education
through a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of
completion of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public
Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60
days after the close of the city’s fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register
shall show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the
amount of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which
the same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person
in whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The City Treasurer shall deliver
one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in
his or her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the City Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she
shall close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward
the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the City
Treasurer shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose
name any warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the
public records in the City Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for
providing copies of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-
712.09.
   (E)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid
by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City
Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.07 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the City Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of
the City Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to
him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall
draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and
other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other
duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The City
Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal
services performed by him or her for it on such terms as the City Council and
City Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay
for such legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.08 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 31.09 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All
police officers appointed by the Mayor and City Council may be removed,
demoted, or suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2)
below. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City
Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish, by ordinance, procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the City Council.
The City Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the
public, or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a
physically present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public, or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 31.10 CITY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one city utility and the City Council determines that it is in the
best interest of the city to appoint one official to have the immediate control
over all the municipal utilities. Any vacancy occurring in that office by
death, resignation, or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore
provided for the appointment of all city officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the city water system and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. Included in the water system shall
be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the city.
All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be
subject to the general directives and control of the City Council. The
Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and
authority over all employees of the water system which the City Council may
from time to time hire to operate and maintain the system. Unless some other
official is specifically designated, he or she shall collect all money received
by the city on account of the system of waterworks and shall faithfully account
for and pay over to the City Treasurer all such money collected in the name of
the city and receive a receipt from the City Treasurer for the depository
evidence of the faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be
filed with the City Clerk, and the second copy shall be kept by the
Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at
least once annually of the condition of the water system, of all mains, pipes,
hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements, repairs, and
extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding year.
No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the
waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent. The
Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by
resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk. He
or she shall perform those additional duties as may be prescribed by the City
Council.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the city sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of the
City Council. He or she shall at least every six months make a detailed report
to the City Council on the condition of the sewer system and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional
employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He or she shall have those other duties as the City Council may
delegate. He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the city sewer
system and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
      (3)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to
the orders and directives of the City Council, have general charge, directions,
and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
city and shall perform those other duties as the City Council may require. It
shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein
function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she shall,
at the request of the City Council, make a detailed report to the City Council
on the conditions of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of
the city and shall direct its attention to those improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or she may believe are
needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the city, along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue permits and assume those
other duties as the City Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541 and 39-2512
§ 31.11 ZONING INSPECTOR AND BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector and Building Inspector. In the
absence of a specific appointment by the Mayor, the Utilities Superintendent is
hereby designated as Zoning Inspector and Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-213) (Ord. 752, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 31.12 CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a civil defense director who shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the local
organization for civil defense, subject to the direction and control of the
Mayor and City Council and in accordance with the state’s civil defense plan
and program. In the absence of a specific appointment by the Mayor, the City of
Lyons Volunteer Fire Chief is hereby designated as Civil Defense Director.
(Prior Code, § 1-214) (Ord. 455, passed 7-2-1990)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
Housing Authority
   
32.15   Election; appointments
   
32.16   Continued existence housing agency
   
32.17   Operation and management
   
32.18   Reports
Police Department
   
32.30   Duties
   
32.31   Reserve officer bond
   
32.32   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.33   Officers; discipline or removal from duty; notice and hearing;
determination
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members. At
least four of the members shall be residents of the municipality and all five
members shall serve terms of four years. The board members shall be appointed
by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the Mayor nor
any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library Board. The
terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the number of
members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members shall be
appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies by
resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy for
the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
      (2)   The City Council may require the members of the Library Board to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(Prior code, § 2-201) (Ord. 688, passed 9-7-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Library provisions, see
Ch. 90 of this code
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of five,
seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance,
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there are 500 residents in the area over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a
majority of the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. All regular members of
the Commission shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular
member shall be three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular
members of the first commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, one-third or fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d) A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission’s judgment
bear relation to the planning of such city and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS
19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name (i) make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies,
(ii) receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from public or
private sources, (iii) expend the funds appropriated to it by the city, (iv)
employ agents and employees, and (v) acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the City
Council shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions
taken by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by
division (F) below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or otherwise
only by the County Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county in which the
greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such County
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
    (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment and shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board of Adjustment. The Secretary shall
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them
with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment,
by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board of
Adjustment unless it finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board of Adjustment
finds that the condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended
use of the property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as
an amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board of
Adjustment may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members
of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative official or
to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
board. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued and be served
upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition. Return of
service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the summons.
Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of Adjustment
shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the substantial
averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the Board with
reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition. The answer
shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At the
expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon according
to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court that
testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take
evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and report
the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions of law,
which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the determination
of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal to the district
court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may, on application, on notice to the Board of Adjustment and on due cause
shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the district
court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state
regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: The Mayor,
who shall be chairperson, the President of the City Council; and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has
appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board of
Health as secretary and quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board of Health shall have power to and shall make all needful
rules and regulations relating to matters of sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
water closets, cesspools, stables, and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances, or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board of Health shall
also have control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of sick, and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Health shall meet at such times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
Cross-reference: 
   Health and safety regulations, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.05 PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall consist of five members
who shall be residents of the city. One member shall be City Council Park and
Rec Commissioner and the remaining four members shall be appointed at large.
Three members of the Advisory Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
assent of the Council.
   (C)   At the time of the first appointment, one at large member shall be
appointed for a term of one year, one for a term of two years, one for a term
of three years, and one for a term of four years. Thereafter, it shall be the
duty of the Mayor and City Council to appoint one member of the Board each year
for a term of four years. These terms of office shall run on a calendar year
with appointments made at the regular December Council meeting.
   (D)   The Advisory Board shall advise and recommend to the Mayor and City
Council in areas concerning the layout, improvement, beautification design,
maintenance, program planning, and general operation of the public parks and
municipally-owned recreation facilities.
(Res. 2023-19, passed 10-10-2023)
HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 32.15 ELECTION; APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed,
provided that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The City
Council may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five members of
such Housing Authority for such term as the City Council may determine. No
person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area
of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of appointment or
reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the City Clerk and such
certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such
Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her
services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including
travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her duties. A majority of
Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Housing Authority for the
purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all other
purposes. Action may be taken by the Housing Authority upon the vote of the
majority of the Commissioners present unless, in any case, the bylaws of the
Housing Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect
a chairperson and vice-chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
secretary of the Housing Authority. The Housing Authority may also employ legal
counsel, or it may call upon the chief law officer of the city for such
services as it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other
officers, agents, and employees as it may require and shall determine their
qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of office. The Housing
Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents or employees
as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure and for one year thereafter, no
commissioner, officer, or employee of the City Housing Authority shall
voluntarily acquire property included or planned to be included in any project,
or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any
such commissioner, officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such
interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to
appointment or employment as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she
shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing to the Housing
Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Housing
Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by the Housing
Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any such
interest; provided that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any
interest in notes or bonds of the Housing Authority issued in connection with
any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions
for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project, or to act as
trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which
are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a
Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner
prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him or her. Unless, within ten days from the receipt of such notice,
such Commissioner files with the City Clerk a request for a hearing before the
City Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a
request for a hearing is filed with the City Clerk, the City Council shall hold
a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or
by counsel and the City Council shall determine whether the removal shall be
disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall
continue to hold his or her position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the City Council on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168
§ 32.16 CONTINUED EXISTENCE HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent with
the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings, records,
and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the successor agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to be
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the
agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the State Housing Agency
Act.
   (D)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees of the
agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the State
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Housing Agency Act, see Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 32.17 OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Housing Authority shall at all times observe the following duties
with respect to rentals and tenant selection.
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low income, and
displaced persons in need.
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin, or ancestry.
      (3)   The Housing Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in
any dwelling in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have
an aggregate annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Housing
Authority has conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure,
safe, sanitary, and uncongested dwelling accommodations within the area served
by the Housing Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
      (4)   The Housing Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling
consisting of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and
sanitary accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
      (5)   The Housing Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and
rents after taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps, and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Housing Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person
or persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Housing Authority for more than a
period of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly, or handicapped persons of low income.
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
subchapter and the Housing Authority may establish rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this subchapter and the Housing Authority may
establish rules and regulations consistent with the purposes of this subchapter
concerning eligibility and occupancy of the housing project or other such
shelter.
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Housing Authority to
inquire into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal,
and employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
      (9)   The Housing Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
   (B)   The Housing Authority may establish, from time to time, rules and
regulations consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the
purposes of this chapter concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so
terminated shall be sent a written notice of termination setting out the
reasons for such termination, and any tenant served with a notice shall be
given the opportunity to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing;
except that tenants who have created or maintained a threat constituting a
serious and clear danger to the health or safety of other tenants or Housing
Authority employees need not be given such a hearing by the Housing Authority.
Such notice may provide that if the tenant fails to pay his or her rent or
comply with any covenant or condition of his or her lease, or the rules and
regulations of such Housing Authority, or cure a violation or default thereof,
as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow the procedure for a
hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or times set forth in
such notice; the tenancy shall then be automatically terminated and no other
notice or notices need be given of such termination or the intent to terminate
the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any notice other than as
provided for in this section, the Housing Authority may file suit against any
tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover the same as
provided by law.
   (C)   The Housing Authority may establish, from time to time, rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this subchapter concerning personal
property of tenants and other persons located in projects of the Housing
Authority; and if such personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at
the time of the termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or
abandonment of the dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant,
then the Housing Authority may remove the same and store such property at the
tenant’s risk and expense. In the event that possession of such personal
property is not taken by the tenant or other person authorized by law to take
possession within 45 days after such termination, vacation, or abandonment, and
any storage removal charges remain unpaid, then the Housing Authority may, at
its option, dispose of the personal property in any manner which the Housing
Authority deems fit, except that any proceeds from the disposal of such
personal property shall be paid to the general fund of the body which created
the Housing Authority. No tenant or other person shall have any cause of action
against the Housing Authority for such removal or disposition of such personal
property.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1536
§ 32.18 REPORTS.
   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities
and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual report at
the second regular meeting in January of each year to the City Council. Such
report shall include all mortgages and other interests in real property held by
the sale, essential terms and obligations, and all other financial obligations
of the Housing Authority over $50,000. Such reports shall be considered public
records. If there has been no change from the last report in the status of any
of the items reported pursuant to this section, the Housing Authority may file
a statement to that effect in lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1552
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall devote his
or her whole time to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Police Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the
orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to protect
the rights of persons and property. The Police Department shall take notice of
all nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the city. The Police Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police
officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every
city police officer making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the
presence of some other person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and
produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial everything found upon
the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners
shall be restored to them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police
officers shall file such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and
the laws of the state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in
any establishment having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Refusing to aid a police officer, see §
131.01
§ 32.31 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount set forth in the city’s fee schedule, payable to the city,
has been filed with the City Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket
surety bond arranged and paid for by the City Council, and bonding all such
officers of the City Council has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the
provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11, Art. 1.
(Prior Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 421, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 32.32 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail, or other place of confinement to prevent their escape
until trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the State Emergency Management
Agency or with any other related training program, the law enforcement
personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any
legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they are
rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall self-insure or
contract for insurance against any liability for personal injuries or property
damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any
movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal Cooperation Act, see Neb. RS 13-801 et seq.
   Joint Public Agency Act, see Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq.
§ 32.33 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY; NOTICE AND HEARING;
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal or discipline of any police officer,
including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for
making application for an appeal, specifications on the period of time within
which such application shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the
appeals hearing shall be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the City Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the City Council to
act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members
to vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision
of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts
and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the City
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall
set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the
filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall give the
police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to
the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   To be represented by counsel.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Emergency meetings
   
33.05   Attendance other than in person
   
33.06   Closed sessions
   
33.07   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.08   Public participation
   
33.09   City Council; order of business
   
33.10   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.11   Change in office
   
33.12   Organizational meetings
   
33.13   Regular meetings
   
33.14   Special meetings
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
33.42   Compensation of city officials
Civil Emergencies; Risk Management
   
33.55   Intergovernmental risk management
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   Shall include:
         (a)   The City Council of the city,
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law, and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies
unless a quorum of the PUBLIC BODY attends a subcommittee meeting, or unless
such subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
(Ord. 489, passed 8-24-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference: 
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.05 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.07 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
§ 33.08 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
§ 33.09 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting,
the members of the City Council, the City Clerk, the Mayor, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration, and
disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Consideration of petitions and other communications;
      (4)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business of the preceding meeting;
      (6)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Final passage of ordinances;
      (8)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (9)   New business.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 33.10 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first.
   (C)   All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being
acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk or any member of the City Council.
Every member of the City Council who is present when a question is voted upon
shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the members of the
City Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When
seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases
where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member
of the City Council making the motion or resolution shall be entered also.
   (D)   After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in
the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the City Council seconding the resolution, motion, or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate.
   (E)   Any of the rules of the City Council for meetings may be suspended by
a two-thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.11 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the City Council shall present their
reports. Upon the outgoing City Council having completed its business, the
outgoing members of the City Council shall surrender their offices to the
incoming members, and the outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to
their successors in office all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging
to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the City Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior City Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the
meeting to order. The City Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of
all Council members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The
City Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other
elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected and to see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given.
The City Clerk’s report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting
preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the City Clerk has called the roll, the City Council shall
elect a President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her
candidates for appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired
and call for a vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed
with the regular order of business.
§ 33.12 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The newly elected City Council shall convene at the regular place of
meeting in the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in
which a city election is held, immediately after the prior City Council
adjourns, and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor
elected for the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The City
Council shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other
elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected, and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
After ascertaining that all members are duly qualified, the City Council shall
then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as “President of the
Council.” The Mayor shall then nominate his or her candidates for appointive
offices. He or she shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the City
Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer elected to any
office, to qualify prior to the first regular meeting in December following his
or her election. All appointive officers shall qualify within two weeks
following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not
required to give bond shall consist in his or her subscribing and taking an
oath to support the U.S. Constitution, the Nebraska Constitution, the laws of
the city, and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her
office, said oath to be filed in the office of the City Clerk. Each officer who
is required to give a bond shall file the required bond in the office of the
City Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful discharge of
the duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 372, passed 11-7-1978)
§ 33.13 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of
the city. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month at
the hour of 5:30 p.m.
   (B)   A majority of all members elected to the City Council shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number of members may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. When the
City Council consists of four members as established by ordinance or home rule
charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for purposes of
establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence is necessary to establish the
quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 407, passed 11-5-1985; Ord. 547, passed 5-6-1997;
Ord. 554, passed 11-4-1997; Ord. 614, passed 2-6-2001; Ord. 757, passed 7-11-
2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 33.14 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of
the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the City Council in
writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. On filing the call for a special
meeting, the City Clerk shall notify the City Council members of the special
meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not
be given to a Council member known to be out of the state or physically unable
to be present. A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is
present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the City Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present,
or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor
and the President of the Council, the City Council members shall elect a
President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall
comply with procedures set forth in §§
30.45 through
30.52.
(Prior Code, § 1-516) (Ord. 407, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-106
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The city may pay the premium for the bond or
insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an
aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and with such
terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Art. XVII, § 5, of the Nebraska Constitution.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   (1)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he
or she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed,
but when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control,
his or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property.
      (2)   When it is ascertained that the incumbent of an office holds over
by reason of the non-election or non-appointment of a successor or of the
neglect or refusal of the successor to qualify, he or she shall qualify anew
within ten days from the time at which his or her successor, if elected, should
have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the City
Council may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the City Council, the
office shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall
be the duty of the City Council to appoint a competent and qualified person to
fill the office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, __________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all
enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
same; that I take this obligation freely and without mental reservation or for
the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the
duties of the office of ____________, according to law and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help
me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and City Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.02, except that when there are officers elected to the City Council, or any
other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or
more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such council, board, or commission may be increased or diminished at
the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the City Council
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the City Council;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the City Council shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the City Council may
prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The City Council may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 33.42 COMPENSATION OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
   (B)   The pay ranges for each officer or employee are set forth in the
city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
   (D)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices, except that when there
are officers elected to the Council, or a board or commission having more than
one member and the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times, the compensation of all members may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Prior Code, § 1-903) (Ord. 753, passed 1-10-2023; Ord. 756, passed 5-2-2023;
Ord. 765, passed 1-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108, 17-108.02, 17-611, and 17-612)
CIVIL EMERGENCIES; RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 33.55 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. Any county, city, village, school district, public power
district, rural fire district, or other political subdivision of this state,
the University of Nebraska, and any corporation whose primary function is to
act as an instrumentality or agency of the state.
   (B)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act to form, become members of, and
operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to members risk
management services and insurance coverages in the form of group self-insurance
or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-insurance and
standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising from any of the
following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property,
including, but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident, and life insurance to member’s employees and officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, see Neb. RS 44-4301 et seq.
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4303 and 44-4304
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the code or bylaws of the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS 32-1202
associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a property tax
levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or county clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
35.14   Fines and fees
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
Taxation
   
35.45   Property tax; certification of amount
   
35.46   Property tax levy; authority to set
   
35.47   Sales and use tax; General Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk; and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets,
or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the city electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed an amount set
forth in the city’s fee schedule in any one year upon the taxable value of all
the taxable property within the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in
addition to the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of
the adopted budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a
sinking fund for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original
equipment, or repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the
following public improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to
the making thereof: city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for
social or recreational purposes; city halls; city public libraries,
auditoriums, or community houses in a single building; city swimming pools;
city jails; city fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or
apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries; city medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or city hospitals. The city shall not be authorized
to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this division
(B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been in default in the
payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division, the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do all
things authorized under such resolution of submission but never inconsistent
with this section. The election provided for under this section shall be
conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the City
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the City Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Capital Expansion Act, see Neb. RS 72-1269 et seq.
   Nebraska State Funds Investment Act, see Neb. RS 72-1260 et seq.
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 35.14 FINES AND FEES.
   The fees and taxes charged by the city for various services and occupations
shall be, and hereby are, fixed in accordance with the city’s fee schedule, and
such fees and taxes charged shall be in accordance with such rules as the city
may establish.
(Ord. 763, passed 11-14-2023; Ord. 772, passed 6-11-2024)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 538, passed 12-3-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the four calendar days
shall include the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the total
operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or
$20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the
City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing body
shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement available to
the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions of the
proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison with the
prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed
budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing
and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall correct
any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
subsection, the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may, by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
TAXATION
§ 35.45 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided.
Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-807) (Ord. 583, passed 6-3-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at least five days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
    (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-821) (Ord. 610, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1632
§ 35.47 SALES AND USE TAX; GENERAL FUND.
   The City Council shall cause to be implemented a sales and use tax of 2%
upon the same transactions within such city on which the state is authorized to
impose a tax.
   (A)   All revenue collections from the imposition of a sales and use tax on
affected transactions within the corporate limits of the city and any interest
accruing on the same, shall be used only for General Fund purposes.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with division (A) above, the Mayor and City
Council shall have a separate account entitled General Fund set up and subject
to annual review and audit of the use of the sales and use tax revenue
collections will be reported to the newspaper in general circulation annually.
   (C)   This section shall not be amended or repealed except by a vote of the
electors of the city or by subsequently enacted state statutes as long as there
is a sales and use tax imposed on affected transactions within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 613, passed - -; Ord. 767, passed 5-21-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   GAS
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
      
55.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Deposit required
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Lien
   
50.06   Voluntary disconnect and reconnect fee
§ 50.01 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applicants for utility services, namely, gas, water, or electricity,
or any two or three of such services, from the city shall make a utility
deposit as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   If additional meters are required by the applicant, the deposit for
each additional meter shall be as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   If any applicant’s service is disconnected as a result of the
procedure set forth in §
50.02, that applicant’s service, on the first occasion of a disconnect, shall
not be restored until the applicant pays a deposit as set forth in the city’s
fee schedule.
   (D)   When the applicant ceases to require utility service and surrenders
the meters to the city, the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant less any
charges due to the city of the applicant.
   (E)   A consumer who has paid all prior utility indebtedness at another
location in the city on or before the indebtedness became due for two years
immediately preceding the application for new utility service shall not be
required to make such deposit.
   (F)   All consumers who have made a utility deposit with the city shall have
such deposit returned to them, provided the consumer has paid all utility
indebtedness on or before the date the indebtedness is due, for two years
prior.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 385, passed 11-10-1980; Ord. 485, passed 8-3-1993;
Ord. 663, passed 6-5-2008; Ord. 669, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 721, passed 8-4-
2015)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to discontinue utility services and
remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the city shall first give notice by first-class mail or in person
to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. If
notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as
to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven days
after notice is sent or given. As to any subscriber who has previously been
identified to the city by the Department of Health and Human Services, as a
recipient of energy assistance, such notice shall be by certified mail and
notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Health
and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the city regarding
payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
       (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the city may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the city’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the city within five days of receiving notice under this
section and will prevent the disconnection of the city’s service for a period
of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection shall be
allowed under this section for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due
account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the city
for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the city with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested.
      (2)   If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference shall
be held before the city may discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the City Council for resolving utility
bills, copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are made a
part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the city for reasons of repair or maintenance or to
protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1102) (Ord. 578, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 720, passed 8-4-2015)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any instrument, device, or contrivance with
any wire supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or
connects any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and
consent of the city, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to
any instrument by or at which electricity, electric current, gas, or water may
be consumed without passing through the meter provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who
knowingly uses or knowingly permits the use of electricity, electric current,
gas, or water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters, or by any instrument,
device, or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of electricity, gas, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When electrical, gas, or water service has been disconnected pursuant
to Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
53.26, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration, or obstruction is proven to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-1103.01) (Ord. 551, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, when that act results in
damages to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for utilities service furnished, and such bill remains
unpaid at the expiration of 60 days after billing date specified on the
utilities charge statement, together with any additions thereto, such
delinquent charges shall then be a lien upon the property served; such
delinquent service charge and addition aforesaid shall be levied and assessed
against the premises served in the same manner prescribed by law for the
assessment and levy of special taxes and assessments, and shall be collected or
returned in the same manner as other city special taxes and assessment are
certified assessed, collected and returned. The City Clerk shall notify in
writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 30 days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. Such assessment shall be certified to the City
Treasurer for collection as prescribed by law; and such assessments shall bear
interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the effective date of levy thereof as
a special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 3-1104) (Ord. 523, passed 4-4-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01, and 18-503
§ 50.06 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECT AND RECONNECT FEE.
   When a customer of the city utilities requests that the customer’s meter be
disconnected or reconnected, the customer shall pay the fees as set forth in
the city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1106) (Ord. 693, passed 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Discharge of sewage
   
51.04   Private sewer permits
   
51.05   Sewer hookup; permits
   
51.06   Prohibited discharge; manholes
   
51.07   Damage to sewer works
   
51.08   Inspection
   
51.09   Sewer use charge
   
51.10   Service revenues
   
51.11   Rate structure
   
51.12   Billings
   
51.13   Review of charges
   
51.14   Mandatory hookup
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the City Sewer System through the Utilities
Department.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and
repairing of any sewer or water utilities in the city, the City Council may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law,
on the taxable value of all the taxable property in the city.
      (2)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer
Maintenance Fund, and shall be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance
and repairs of the water and sewer system.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 584, passed 6-3-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 17-925.01
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body or surface of groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 300
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely, under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works, to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage, and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste, which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration, or flows during normal operation.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries stand surface waters and drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewage Works and/or of Water Pollution
Control of the city or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of city sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances, extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities, and any works
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total waste-water service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by qualified contractors as
used and approved by the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 51.03 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet (30 and one-half meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PRIVATE SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.03(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application of such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within two hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with the State Department of Environmental
Control’s Title 124 Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation, and
Maintenance of Septic Tank Systems, being 124 Neb. Admin. Code.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in this section, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage system shall be
abandoned in accordance with State Department of Environmental Control’s Title
124 Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic
Tank Systems.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 SEWER HOOKUP; PERMITS.
   (A)   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential service; and
         (b)   For commercial service and for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee as set forth in the city’s fee schedule for a residential
building sewer permit and a fee as set forth in the city’s fee schedule for a
commercial or industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
S.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, park-ways, and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) (Ord. 565, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE; MANHOLES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphta, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer; and
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
    (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, ungrounded garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property or constitute
a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of such wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of the 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid from pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
          (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
SLUGS as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (11)   (a)   Any waters or wastes having the following shall be subject
to the review of the Superintendent:
            1.   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
            2.   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
            3.   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city.
         (b)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary, to:
            1.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight;
            2.   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes.
         (c)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities
shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   (F)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above and which, in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to
life to constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.10.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (G)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (H)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (I)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
services by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him, so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes, to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be detonated in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be detonated at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate, or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is determined from periodic grab
samples.)
   (K)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 51.07 DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees; and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company, and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.05(H).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement, and shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 51.09 SEWER USE CHARGE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city’s
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 51.10 SERVICE REVENUES.
   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs
of annual operation and maintenance; including replacement of costs associated
with debt retirement, and of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may, by ordinance, designate to be paid by the
user charge system. The portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance, including replacement of the treatment works,
shall be established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 528, passed 10-3-1995; Ord. 619, passed 2-7-2002;
Ord. 620, passed 2-7-2002; Ord. 643, passed 12-4-2003)
§ 51.11 RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on his
or her use of the treatment works as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to
the city.
   (B)   (1)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges will be based
on average monthly water usage during the months of January, February, and
March. If a residential contributor has not established a January, February,
and March average, his or her monthly user charge shall be the median charge of
all other residential contributors.
      (2)   For industrial and commercial contributors, user charges shall be
based on water used during the current month. If a commercial or industrial
contributor has a consumptive use of water, or in some other manner uses water
which is not returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge for
that contributor may be based on a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter
(s), installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the city.
   (C)   The minimum charge per month shall be as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule. In addition, each contributor shall pay a user charge rate for
operation and maintenance, including replacement of a fee as set forth in the
city’s fee schedule per 1,000 gallons of water as determined in division (B)
above.
   (D)   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of
which is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge for operation and
maintenance, including replacement, will be determined by city staff and
approved by the City Council at such time as the need arises.
   (E)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluents or the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which, singly or by
interaction with other substances, causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by
the responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
   (F)   The user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the city’s treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 644, passed 12-4-2003; Ord. 668, passed - -; Ord.
675, passed 5-5-2009; Ord. 712, passed 4-1-2014; Ord. 761, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 51.12 BILLINGS.
   All users shall be billed monthly for sewer service, provided by the City
Sewer Department. Monthly bills are due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk. Payment of the net amount is allowed until the twenty-fifth day of the
month the bill is mailed. After that date, the bill is considered delinquent
and payable at the gross amount. Delinquent bills will be collected as provided
for in Chapter 50.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 671, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 51.13 REVIEW OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The city will review the user charge system at least every June and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation.
   (B)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 51.14 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   The property owner, occupant, or lessee of any premise that abuts a sewer
main that is now, or may hereafter be laid, shall without delay, cause the said
building to be connected with the city’s sewer system and equipped with inside
sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with
the city’s sewer system at the time of its construction. In the event that any
property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse to make such
connection, within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or
her, by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city, the City Council shall have the power to cause the
same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property, and to
collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other
special taxes and assessments.
(Ord. 745, passed 11-5-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149.01 and 17-574
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.06, shall be served by the city with written notice, stating the nature of
the violation, and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.05(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Single premises
   
52.06   Restricted use
   
52.07   Hydrants
   
52.08   Water service contracts
   
52.09   Inspection
   
52.10   Police reports
   
52.11   Destruction of property
   
52.12   Prohibition of lead pipes
   
52.13   Wellhead Protection Area
   
52.14   Water drought emergency
   
52.15   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities
   
52.16   Mandatory hookup
Fees; Billing Procedure
   
52.30   Installation expense
   
52.31   Repairs
   
52.32   Fees and collections
   
52.33   Rates
   
52.34   Billings
   
52.35   Lien
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
52.50   Statement of policy
   
52.51   Definitions
   
52.52   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.53   Survey and investigations
   
52.54   Where protection is required
   
52.55   Type of protection required
   
52.56   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.57   Installation
   
52.58   Testing
   
52.59   Authorized representative authority
   
52.60   Appeals
   
52.61   Liability claims
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the City Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the City Water Department may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law,
on the taxable valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City
Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the City Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, and 19-1305
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premise where the shut-off, stop box,
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefore to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent shall require a
water tap fee in the amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule from every
applicant. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply
water service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the City Council; provided, the entire cost of laying mains,
service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the city to provide water service to non-
residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 385, passed 11-10-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 19-2701
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council may see fit
to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the City Council may hereafter adopt, the City Council may order the Utilities
Superintendent to cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or
premises or place of such violation. No further connection for water service to
said building, premises, or place shall again be made save or except by order
of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
52.99
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.02
§ 52.05 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or attachment
without the written permission of the City Council. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Council or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.07 HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department, to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises.
   (B)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.09 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have free access, at any reasonable time,
to all parts of each premises and building to, or in which, water is delivered
for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the
system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or unnecessary waste of
water.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.10 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of this code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the
additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
§ 52.11 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 442, passed 6-7-1988)
§ 52.13 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface area
surrounding a water well or well field supplying a public water system through
which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water of
well field.
   (B)   The City Council designates a Wellhead Protection Area for the purpose
of protecting the public water supply system. The boundaries of the Wellhead
Protection Area are based upon a map prepared by the State Department of
Environmental Quality presented to the city in July 2003.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 653, passed 4-3-2005)
§ 52.14 WATER DROUGHT EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the declaration
of a water supply watch, warning, or emergency and the implementation of
voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the
event such a watch, warning, or emergency is declared.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
city’s water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made
or, in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
      WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other
surface drain; or
         (b)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
      WATER. Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or any treated water introduced by the city into its water distribution
system, including water offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
   (C)   Classes. The following classes of uses of water are established:
      (1)   Class 1. Water used for outdoor watering; either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers or the exterior of any building or structure;
      (2)   Class 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural purposes, except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their placement of employment;
      (3)   Class 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2; and
      (4)   Class 4. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   (D)   Declaration of water watch. Whenever the City Council finds that
conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some other condition
causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be empowered to
declare, by resolution, that a water watch exists and that it shall take steps
to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water use. Such a
watch shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the
City Council to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of
a water watch shall be effective upon their publication.
   (E)   Declaration of water warning. Whenever the City Council finds that
drought conditions or some other condition causing a major water supply
shortage are present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water warning exists and that it will
recommend restrictions on nonessential uses during the period of warning. Such
a warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the
City Council to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and ending
of the water warning shall be effective upon their publication.
   (F)   Declaration of water emergency. Whenever the City Council finds that
an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply needed for
essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water
supply emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory restrictions on water
use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency shall be deemed to
continue until it is declared by resolution of the City Council to have ended.
The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water supply emergency
shall be effective upon their publication.
   (G)   Voluntary conservation measures. Upon the declaration of a water watch
or water warning as provided in divisions (D) and (E) above, the Mayor is
authorized to call on all water consumers to employ voluntary water
conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water uses including,
but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
      (1)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs, or trees (including golf
courses);
      (2)   Washing of automobiles;
      (3)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains, and evaporative air
conditioning systems; and
      (4)   Waste of water.
   (H)   Mandatory conservation measures. Upon the declaration of a water
supply emergency as provided in division (F) above, the Mayor is also
authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation measures,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Suspension of new connections to the city’s water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the city prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the emergency;
      (2)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water
use, wholly or in part;
      (3)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
      (4)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
      (5)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
      (6)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
   (I)   Emergency water rates. Upon the declaration of a water supply
emergency as provided in division (F) above, the City Council shall have the
power to adopt emergency water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water
supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (3)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use(excess
demand surcharge).
    (J)   Regulations. During the effective period of any water supply
emergency as provided for in division (F) above, the Mayor is empowered to
promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this section, any water supply emergency resolution, or emergency water rate
ordinance. Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the City
Council at its next regular or special meeting.
   (K)   Violations, disconnections, and penalties.
      (1)   If the Mayor or other city official or officials charged with
implementation and enforcement of this chapter or a water supply emergency
resolution learn of any violation of any water use restrictions imposed
pursuant to this section or division (I) above, a written notice of the
violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and the
customer of record or any other person known to the city who is responsible for
the violation or its correction shall be provided with either actual or mailed
notice. Said notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured, or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not
complied with, the city may terminate water service to the customer subject to
the following procedures:
         (a)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or
a city official designated as a hearing officer by the City Council;
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered;
         (c)   The City Council or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated; and
         (d)   A fee as set forth in the city’s fee schedule shall be paid for
the reconnection of any water service terminated pursuant to this division (K)
(1). In the event of subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be as
set forth in the city’s fee schedule for the second reconnection and a fee as
set forth in the city’s fee schedule for any additional reconnections.
      (2)   Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty for an initial violation shall be a fine of up to $100. In addition,
such customer may be required by the Court to serve a definite term of
confinement in the county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and which
shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second or subsequent conviction
shall be a fine of up to $200. In addition, such customer shall serve a
definite term of confinement in the county jail which shall be fixed by the
Court and which shall not exceed 30 days.
   (L)   Emergency termination. Nothing in this section shall limit the ability
of any properly authorized city official from terminating the supply of water
to any or all customers upon the determination of such city official that
emergency termination of water service is required to protect the health and
safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 623, passed 7-9-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Drilling without a permit unlawful. From and after the effective date
of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other
legal entity to drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the
corporate city limits without first having obtained the proper permit from the
City Council; potable water well, any other well, sewage lagoon, absorption or
disposal field for water, cesspool, dumping grounds, feedlots, livestock
pasture or corral, chemical product storage facility, petroleum product storage
facility, pit toilet, sanitary landfill, septic tank, sewage treatment plant,
and sewage wet well.
   (B)   Procedure to obtain permit. In order to obtain a permit to drill and/
or operate any of the facilities listed in division (A) above, the owner of the
property on which the proposed facility is to be located must make application
on the proper form provided by the City Council. Such application must be
presented to the City Council at any regular or special meeting. After
reviewing the application of any person desiring to drill or operate any of the
above described facilities, the City Council shall approve or deny said permit.
   (C)   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated
distance from municipal water sources; prohibited. Under no circumstances shall
the City Council approve any permit to drill or operate any of the below
described facilities within the indicated number of feet from any city water
well:
Category Distance
Category                                      Distance
Absorption or disposal field for waste        500 feet
Cesspool                                      500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage         500 feet
Corral                                        500 feet
Dump                                          500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                     500 feet
Non-potable water well                        1,000 feet
Pit toilet                                    500 feet
Sanitary landfill                             500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                     100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                           100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight) 10 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                        100 feet
Septic tank                                   500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                        500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                 1,000 feet
Sewage wet well                               500 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 3-134) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the City Council, to hook up with the city’s water system.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-5-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
FEES; BILLING PROCEDURE
§ 52.30 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
city. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe from the
lot line to the place of dispersion, as well as the cost of installing said
meter in place where it will properly measure all water consumed and will be
convenient for the representatives of the city to read and keep in repair. Said
meter shall be located in a place where it will be protected from freezing.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.31 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the city. All water meters shall be kept in repair
by the city at the expense of the city. When meters are worn out, they shall be
replaced with meters purchased by the city and installed at the expense of the
customer; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be
damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
City Clerk shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such meter
repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting
a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer. The city reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair
the city shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s
water service fixtures with the expense of installation being charged to the
customer. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer
shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the
basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding year;
provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be
charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.32 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by the
water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. The City Clerk
shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the city on the
account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account for, and
pay to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his or
her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the City Clerk and keeping
the other on file in the Water Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 52.33 RATES.
   All water consumers shall pay a base charge of an amount as set forth in the
city’s fee schedule per month. In addition, each consumer shall pay an amount
as set forth in the city’s fee schedule per 1,000 gallons of water used, each
month.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 364, passed 6-8-1976; Ord. 527, passed 10-3-1995;
Ord. 618, passed 2-7-2002; Ord. 642, passed 12-4-2003; Ord. 650, passed 10-5-
2004; Ord. 667, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. 711, passed 4-1-2014; Ord. 760, passed 9-
12-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.34 BILLINGS.
   All users shall be billed monthly for water usage, provided by the City
Water Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall read, or cause to be read,
water meters, monthly. Monthly bills are due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk. Payment of the net amount is allowed until the twenty-fifth day of
the month the bill is mailed. After that date, the bill is considered
delinquent and payable in the gross amount. Delinquent bills will be collected
as provided for in Chapter 50.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 670, passed 9-2-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542 and 19-2702
§ 52.35 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be notified
in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent. It shall
be the duty of the City Clerk on June 1 of each year to report to the City
Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for water together with a description
of the premise upon which the same was used. The report shall be examined, and
if approved by the City Council, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 52.50 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s internal
distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures, and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the
city’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply the
principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the degree
of hazard.
   (D)   Responsibility. The City Water Department shall be primarily
responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to backflow of contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement and maintain the program to control cross-connections.
The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the water system
within consumer’s own premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
this cross-connection control subchapter.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, or any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
    BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other foreign liquids, gases,
or substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in
the piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create the actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which could create, or may create, a danger to the health and
well-being of the water consumer.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. Plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air-gap
separation, or backflow prevention device.
   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable, or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking
culinary and domestic purposes, and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the down stream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the City of Lyons. Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.52 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained by any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
City Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.53 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative for the conduction of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections in the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his or her
premises and in the consumer’s water system.
   (C)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises of the
consumer’s water system to determine whether there are actual or potential
cross-connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to the city or
its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.54 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when, in the judgment of the city or authorized representative, a
health, plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the City Water Department, the nature and
extent of activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection with
the activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate
and dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection occur; even though
such cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention device
is required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the city or its authorized representative
and the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements, which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established;
      (5)   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system or where a cross connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the city, or its
authorized representative, or the State Department of Health to protect the
public water supply and must be installed at these facilities, unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized
representative and the State Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Premises having water re-circulating system as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire protection systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems capable of chemical
injection;
      (11)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (12)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (13)   Beauty salons;
      (14)   Schools;
      (15)   Sewage pumping stations; and
      (16)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 52.55 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this chapter shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device, or an approved double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public potable water system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to
health.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 52.56 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of a
model or construction approved by the city or its authorized representative and
the State Department of Health.
   (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at twice the diameter of
the supply pipe measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in no
case less than one inch.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the State Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time this subchapter was passed and complies with
required inspection and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.57 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this policy shall be installed
at a location in a manner approved by the city or its authorized agent. All
devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer, unless the city or
its authorized representative agrees otherwise.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service connection shall
be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
the corporation stop, as close to the meter or corporation stop as is
reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.58 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
city or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the expense
of the consumer, unless the city or its authorized representative agrees
otherwise. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of the
consumer and subject to the approval of the city. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the city’s authorized representative shall give
notice, setting forth a proposed date and time to the customer at least ten
working days in advance, by first class mail, return receipt requested. If the
customer cannot make the premises available for inspection on that date and
time, the customer shall contact the city’s authorized representative to
arrange another date and time.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
§ 52.59 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements, and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed to the consumer by first-class mail, return receipts
requested.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.60 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within ten days after the decision or order of
the authorized representative has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the authorized representative. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or
equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
§ 52.61 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
city shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or authorized
by this title, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized
representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any suit
brought carrying out the provisions of the title shall be defended by the city
or the city’s insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such
proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 3-131)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or
discontinue the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any
backflow prevention device required by §§
52.50 through
52.61 is not installed, tested, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the
city or its authorized representative, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-
connection exists.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with §§
52.50 through
52.61 to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-130)
   (C)   In the event any of the facilities described in §
52.15 are installed or operated without first having obtained a permit from the
city and/or within the designated number of feet from any municipal water
supply, then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the City Council
shall abate such facility as a public nuisance. In addition thereto, any person
violating any of the terms of this chapter is hereby determined to be “guilty”
of a Class III misdemeanor as the same is defined by state statute. The penalty
for such violation shall be that as defined by state law for the violation of a
Class III misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-134)
(Ord. 630, passed 4-1-2003)
CHAPTER 53: GAS
Section
Gas Department
   
53.01   Ownership
   
53.02   Tap fee
   
53.03   Gas service contracts
   
53.04   Installation expense
   
53.05   Maintenance
   
53.06   Meters
   
53.07   Fees and collections
   
53.08   Rates
   
53.09   Delinquent; billings
   
53.10   Restricted use
   
53.11   Building moving
   
53.12   Inspections
   
53.13   Destruction of property
Natural Gas Regulations
   
53.25   Definitions
   
53.26   City authority and power
   
53.27   Rates
   
53.28   Filing; notice
   
53.29   Supply-cost-adjustment; review
   
53.30   Rate filing
   
53.31   Cost of service; determination
   
53.32   Base year; rejection
   
53.33   Supplemental information
   
53.34   Rate increase; notice to public
   
53.35   Report; rebuttal; hearing; judicial review
   
53.36   Loan Fund; applicants
   
53.37   Review and adjustment
   
53.38   Civil procedure
   
53.39   Priority of chapter
   
53.40   Records; accurate
   
53.41   Customers; right to appear at hearing
   
53.42   Retroactive application; prohibited
   
53.43   Regulations; rate filing fee
GAS DEPARTMENT
§ 53.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and operates the City Gas Department through the Utilities
Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the City Gas Department may each year levy
a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Gas Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The
Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the
City Gas Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. He or she shall have authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
safe and efficient management of the Gas Department, subject to the supervision
and review of the City Council. The City Council shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by ordinance, and shall file the same in the
office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-908 and 17-909
§ 53.02 TAP FEE.
   Upon approval of the application for gas service, the applicant shall pay to
the City Clerk a tap fee of an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule
to cover the cost of processing the application and the expense of tapping the
gas main. The City Clerk shall collect the tap fees and faithfully account for
and pay to the City Treasurer all said fees collected by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003)
§ 53.03 GAS SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for gas service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose of, or remove from the premises
where service is furnished in his or her name, or if the said premises is
destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the
Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the gas service to be shut off from
the said premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she
shall be charged for all gas used on the said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-1004)
§ 53.04 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   All natural gas meters shall be located outside the building that they are
providing heat for. The expense of installing gas service to the gas meter and
the expense of purchase and installation of the gas meter shall be paid by the
city. The consumer shall be required to pay the expense of procuring the
services of a plumber and shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing
pipe, trenching, and the necessary labor to bring the gas from the outlet spud
of the meter to the place of dispersion.
(Prior Code, § 3-1005) (Ord. 392, passed 2-8-1983)
§ 53.05 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city shall pay the expense of repairs and replacements of the gas
pipe from the main to the meter located on the consumer’s property, and shall
repair or replace the gas meter regardless of its location. The consumer shall
be responsible for the expense of all repairs and replacement of pipe and
appurtenances leading from the outlet spud of the meter to the point of
dispersion. Maintenance of the remainder of the city’s gas distribution system
shall be the responsibility of the city.
   (B)   Where emergency situations exist and it is either known or suspected
that a gas leak has occurred, the city will assist the consumer in carrying out
the following emergency procedures:
      (1)   Remove all occupants from the building;
      (2)   Shut down supply of gas from the main to the gas meter; and
      (3)   Assist consumer in locating natural gas leak whether it is inside
or outside the consumer’s building.
   (C)   Liability for personal injury and property damage sustained by anyone
as a result of a gas leak or gas explosion shall rest with the city, if said
gas leak occurred between the main and the outlet spud on the meter. If the gas
leak occurs between the outlet spud on the meter and the place of ultimate
dispersement said liability for the same damages shall rest with the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1006) (Ord. 392, passed 2-8-1983)
§ 53.06 METERS.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall read, or cause to be read, at least one
time each month, the gas meters between the twentieth day during which service
is used and the first day of the succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-1007)
§ 53.07 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
gas consumers for the use of gas. All rates shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the
consumers and collect all money received by the city on the account of the
city’s gas system.
(Prior Code, § 3-1008)
§ 53.08 RATES.
   All gas consumers shall be liable for rates as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1009) (Ord. 359, passed 10-23-1975; Ord. 368, passed 10-5-
1976; Ord. 430, passed 1-5-1988; Ord. 425, passed 5-5-1987; Ord. 440, passed 1-
5-1988; Ord. 535, passed 9-10-1996)
§ 53.09 DELINQUENT; BILLINGS.
   All users shall be billed monthly for gas service provided the City Gas
Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall read, or cause to be read, gas
meters, monthly. Monthly bills shall be due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk. Payment of net amount is allowed until the twenty-fifth day of the
month the bill is mailed. After that date, the bill is considered delinquent
and payable at the gross amount. Delinquent bills will be collected as provided
for in Chapter 50.
(Prior Code, § 3-1010) (Ord. 673, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 53.10 RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Gas Department does not guarantee the delivery of gas except when
it has a sufficient supply, sufficient equipment, and sufficient personnel to
do so. The Utilities Superintendent has the power and authority to disconnect
or discontinue service to any consumer for good and sufficient reason without
liability. The city shall use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and
supply uninterrupted service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages
resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the city has no
control; and the city expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect
any consumer service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-1011)
§ 53.11 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary, and it becomes
necessary in such work to remove or disturb any of the property or pipes of the
city’s gas distribution system, the same shall not be done except upon
reasonable written notice to and written permission received from the Utilities
Superintendent; who shall then order paid in advance the actual cost of moving
the said pipe and other appurtenances, and such cost shall be paid by the
applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All the expense of
removing, changing, and replacing the property of the gas distribution system
shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to such moving, and any surplus
remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the applicant;
provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house it becomes
apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional deposit as
deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-1012)
§ 53.12 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and
building to or in which gas is delivered, for the purpose of examining the
meter, pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether
there is any disrepair or leakage of gas; provided, that in the case of an
emergency, an inspection may be made at any time if proper identification is
shown to the occupant, lessee, or owner of the said building or premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1013)
§ 53.13 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Gas Department, or commit any act tending to obstruct
or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property without the
written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-1014) Penalty, see §
10.99
NATURAL GAS REGULATIONS
§ 53.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA RATE. The rate charged for natural gas service to a class of customers
located within a municipality as determined from the cost of service for the
rate area.
   BASE YEAR. Consists of either the most recent calendar year or a consecutive
12-month period ending not more than six months prior to the date of filing.
   COUNTABLE DAYS. The calendar days not subject to suspension as provided for
in the Municipal Natural Gas Regulation Act.
   CUSTOMER. Any non-interruptible purchaser of natural gas within a
municipality with requirements of less than 100,000 cubic feet of natural gas
per day.
   DATE OF FILING. The first day of the month following the date the rate
filing is received by the office of the Clerk of each municipality in the rate
area.
   DATE OF FINAL ACTION. The date upon which the last municipality in a rate
area adopts or fails to adopt a rate ordinance under a rate filing or the one-
hundred-eightieth day, counted as provided in §
53.27(D), whichever comes first.
   DISTRICT COURT. The district court of Burt County.
   JUDICIAL REVIEW. Means, but shall not be limited to, injunctive relief and
other equitable relief.
   INTERIM RATES. The newly filed rates charged by a utility for natural gas
after the ninetieth countable day following the date of filing, but prior to
final action by the city on the rate filing.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city of the primary class, city of the first class, city
of the second class, or village in Nebraska, or when the context requires any
combination of the same acting in concert in a properly created rate area.
   NATURAL GAS. Wither unmixed natural gas or any mixture of natural gas with
one or more artificial gases and other hydrocarbons.
   RATE. Every compensation, charge, fare, toll, tariff, rental, late payment
charge, or classification which is demanded, observed, charged, or collected by
a utility for natural gas and any rules affecting any such compensation,
charge, fare, toll, tariff, rental, late payment charge, or classification.
   RATE AREA. The municipalities within a geographic area within the state
which is properly established under §
53.27(C) for the purpose of determining an area rate applicable to the
customers within the municipalities within the RATE AREA. A RATE AREA shall be
served by a single utility through a common pipeline system from the same
natural gas supply source within the common system for which the utility has
similar costs for serving customers.
   RATE FILING. The formal application by a utility for a change in rates
together with the information required by §
53.30(B).
   TEST YEAR. Either a consecutive 12-month period commencing on the proposed
effective date of the rate increased or a base year adjusted for known and
measurable changes.
   UTILITY. Any investor-owned utility maintaining and operating a natural gas
distribution system within a municipality in this state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1201)
§ 53.26 CITY AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   A utility shall be subject to:
   (A)   All rights, powers, and authority now or hereafter possessed by a
municipality to regulate rates charged by the utility for natural gas service
to customers within the city;
   (B)   All provisions of this subchapter; and
   (C)   When not inconsistent with divisions (A) and (B) above, the provisions
of any validly executed franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-1202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4603
§ 53.27 RATES.
   (A)   Reasonable.
      (1)   Every rate made, demanded, or received by any utility shall be just
and reasonable. Rates shall not be unreasonably preferential or discriminatory
and shall be reasonably consistent in application to a class of customers and
to a rate area. Rates negotiated under division (A)(3) below shall not be
considered discriminatory.
      (2)   No utility shall, as to rates or service, make or grant any
unreasonable preference or advantage to any person, or subject any person to
any unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage.
      (3)   A utility may negotiate price and other contract terms with
customers whose natural gas requirements exceed 50,000 cubic feet per day.
(Prior Code, § 3-1203)
   (B)   Rate schedules. A utility shall provide to each municipality it
serves, for informational purposes, copies of rate schedules for all rates
charged customers and the requirements for service under such schedules within
the city. The schedules shall also show the natural gas supply costs and
natural gas supply cost adjustments included in the total end rate.
(Prior Code, § 3-1204)
   (C)   Rate area; notice.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) below, each utility
providing service to customers within a municipality in this state which
intends to include a municipality within a rate area shall file notice of
proposed area boundaries with the office of the Clerk of each affected
municipality.
         (b)   There shall be no filing fee charged for filing the notice. The
notice shall include an explanation of how the boundaries of the rate area were
determined and a map showing the boundaries of the rate area. Each time a new
rate area is established or the boundaries of rate area are changed, all
municipalities in the rate area shall receive notice.
       (2)   A municipality shall have 60 days after the notice of proposed
area boundaries is filed to accept or reject its inclusion within the rate
area. Failure of the city to accept or reject its inclusion within the
boundaries of the proposed rate area, within the 60-day period, shall be deemed
acceptance. Rejection of the boundaries may be appealed by the utility to the
District Court. The court shall determine the reasonableness of the inclusion
of the city within the rate area or the reasonableness of the boundaries. If
more than one municipality within a rate area rejects the boundaries, all
appeals by the utility shall be joined in a single action; except upon good
cause shown by a municipality to have its rejection heard separately. The court
may accept or reject the boundaries but may not draft boundaries of its own.
      (3)   After a rate area has been accepted:
         (a)   All rate filings shall be initiated simultaneously in each
municipality within the rate area; and
         (b)   Area rates shall be deemed appropriate for each municipality
within the rate area.
      (4)   If area rates are applied to municipalities in a rate area which do
not have uniform rates for customers on the effective date of this chapter, the
rates in each municipality shall be adjusted in a manner which equalizes the
rates in all municipalities in the rate area. Such equalization of rates shall
be established by January 1, 1992, or in the first rate case filed after such
date by the utility under §
53.30(A).
      (5)   Any utility proposing to increase rates on any area wide basis
within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to make
a rate filing based on proposed area boundaries before a final determination of
area boundaries is made as provided in this section. The requirements of this
chapter shall be complied with fully, except that the time periods provided for
proposed rate area boundary determinations in this section and the time periods
provided for area rate filing shall run concurrently and not consecutively. In
the event that the rate area boundaries are ultimately determined to be other
than those that formed the basis for the rate filing, the city may request that
an amended rate filing based on the final rate area boundaries be provided. In
no event shall the filing of the notice of proposed area boundaries provided
for in division (C)(1) above be made later than the date of filing of the rate
filing. Nothing in this section shall suspend the time periods provided for in
§
53.27(D) from the date of the rate filing. Rate filings under this section
shall not be subject to §
53.28, except that a utility shall provide as much prior notice of a proposed
rate filing as it reasonably can.
(Prior Code, § 3-1205)
   (D)   Interim rates.
      (1)   No utility shall impose, charge, or collect any rate upon its
customers until such time as any proposed rate has been finally determined;
except that a utility shall have the right to collect interim rates, subject to
refund, if the city has not taken final action to allow the rate increase
within 90 countable days of the date of filing for the increase. The rates
requested in the rate filing shall become final and no longer subject to refund
if the city has not taken final action within 180 countable days of the date of
filing.
      (2)   If the utility takes timely action to initiate judicial review of
the rates adopted by a municipality as provided in §
53.35, the utility shall be permitted to continue to collect interim rates from
the date the rates are adopted by the city until a rate ordinance adopted by
the city is affirmed by the district court or accepted by the utility, subject
to refund as provided in this division (D).
      (3)   Upon final order of the district court when no further appeal to
the Supreme Court is pursued, or upon acceptance by the utility of a lower rate
than that being collected, a utility shall, within 60 days of such final order
or acceptance, refund the difference between the rate found proper or agreed to
and the rate collected, plus interest on such amount as provided in division
(D)(4) below.
      (4)   Any amounts refunded pursuant to this section shall bear interest
fixed at a rate equal to one and one-half percentage points above the rate
calculated pursuant to Neb. RS 45-103, in effect on the date of final
determination of the rates by the city.
      (5)   Upon final determination of rates following the exhaustion of all
appeals, the utility shall be permitted to recover the amount of revenue which
would have been produced had the finally determined rates been in effect
throughout the period following the decision by the district court until the
final rates were adopted by the city. In the event that the revenue actually
collected by the utility through interim rates is less than that which would
have been collected, had the final rates been effective throughout such period,
the utility shall be permitted to recover the deficiency plus interest at the
rate provided in this division (D) through a surcharge on customer billings
over a reasonable period not to exceed 12 months. In the event that the revenue
actually collected by the utility through interim rates exceeds that which
would have been collected had the final rates been effective throughout such
period, the utility shall refund the excess with interest as provided in this
division (D).
(Prior Code, § 3-1206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4604 through 19-4607
§ 53.28 FILING; NOTICE.
   The utility shall notify the city of its intent to change the rates charged
to customers in the city under the provisions of this chapter by filing a
notice of proposed filing with the office of the City Clerk at least 60 days
prior to the date of filing of any request for change.
(Prior Code, § 3-1207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4608
§ 53.29 SUPPLY-COST-ADJUSTMENT; REVIEW.
   (A)   A utility shall be permitted to file and implement natural gas supply-
cost-adjustment rate schedules which provide for adjustment and collection of
rates to reflect changes in natural gas supply costs for natural gas sold in
the city.
   (B)   The city may review natural gas supply-cost-adjustment rate schedules.
The city shall initiate such review by resolution of the City Council and shall
provide a copy of the resolution to the utility at least 30 days prior to the
hearing on the issue. The city may request and the utility shall provide all
documents and work papers supporting the actually purchased natural gas
adjustment amounts charged customers. The city shall give the utility at least
30 days’ prior notice of the time and place of the hearing and a copy of the
proposed findings of fact. If, after review and hearing, the city concludes
that the utility is charging more than the amount allowed by the natural gas
supply-cost-adjustment rate schedule, the city shall order the utility to
refund excess amounts collected from customers plus interest at the rate
provided for in §
53.27(C). The utility may initiate judicial review of such an order by a
municipality, and if it does so, the order of the city shall not take effect
during the pendency of such review. The provisions of §
53.27(D)(5) shall be applicable to this section.
   (C)   Any refund, including interest thereon if any, received by the utility
with respect to natural gas purchased under a Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission natural gas tariff at the border station of a municipality related
to increased rates paid by the utility, subject to refund and applicable to
natural gas purchased for resale within the city, shall be passed on to
presently served customers by an appropriate adjustment shown as a credit on
subsequent bills during a period selected by the utility not to exceed 12
months or by a cash refund at the option of the utility. Refunds unpaid after
60 days from the date of receipt by the utility shall bear interest at the rate
set in Neb. RS 45-103.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall change or modify existing
natural gas supply-cost-adjustment rate provisions in an ordinance or franchise
agreement without the review specified in division (B) above. The city may
initiate an action to change the purchased natural gas supply-cost-adjustment
rate schedules under §
53.37.
(Prior Code, § 3-1208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4609
§ 53.30 RATE FILING.
   (A)   Fee; appeal.
      (1)   If a utility desires to change its rates for natural gas service
within a municipality, other than to reflect an adjustment for natural gas
supply costs, the utility shall present to the city copies of present and
proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed rates for
natural gas service within the city as required by division (B) below.
      (2)   The city may charge and collect a filing fee for a rate filing.
Such fee shall not exceed an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
      (3)   Within 45 days after the date of filing, a municipality may reject
a rate filing only on the grounds that the information required by division (B)
below has not been filed with the city. The utility shall be given at least
seven days’ prior written notice of any meeting to consider rejection of the
utility’s rate filing. Rejection shall be made by resolution of the city and
shall state the reasons upon which the rejection is based. In the event of any
such rejection, a copy of the written resolution shall be delivered to the
utility within seven days after final action by the city. After receipt of the
resolution, the utility shall have 15 days to remedy the deficiencies stated in
such resolution, and the time periods under §
53.27(D) shall not be suspended during such 15-day period. If the city has not
received the information to cure the deficiencies within the 15-day period, or
within such additional period of time as may be agreed to by the utility and
the city, the filing shall be deemed to be rejected and the utility shall be
required to initiate a new rate filing.
      (4)   The utility may appeal from the decision of the city rejecting a
rate filing. The appeal shall be to the district court.
      (5)   If a rate filing is rejected and the rejection is appealed, the
utility may place the interim rates into effect pursuant to the time periods
specified in §
53.27(D), subject to refund, pending district court determination. If the
utility appeals the rejection of the filing, and if the court rules that the
rejection was unreasonable, the times specified in §
53.27(D) shall run from the date of filing.
(Prior Code, § 3-1209)
   (B)   Information required. When making a rate filing, the utility shall
provide to the city three copies of the most recent annual report to the
stockholder, and three copies of the following information, verified by a
statement under oath by an officer of the utility:
      (1)   A description of the base year and test year;
      (2)   A financial summary showing aggregate amounts for rate base,
operating revenue, operating expenses, and rate of return for the base year and
test year:
         (a)   Using natural gas rates currently in effect; and
         (b)   Using proposed natural gas rates.
      (3)   Except as provided in §
53.32(B), rate-base schedules showing beginning and ending balances for the
base year and test year of:
         (a)   Utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
showing the balances by functional account totals;
         (b)   Working capital, showing the manner in which it is calculated;
         (c)   Other rate-base components; and
         (d)   Allocated rate-base components showing the manner in which the
components are calculated.
      (4)   Operating expense schedules for the base year and test year;
      (5)   Rate-of-return and cost-of-capital schedules showing:
         (a)   Long-term debt, preferred stock, and common equity amounts,
ratios, and percentage cost rates for the base year and test year; and
         (b)   Long-term debt, preferred stock, and common equity amounts at
the beginning and end of the base year and test year;
      (6)   Operating revenue schedules showing:
         (a)   Number and classification of customers, volume of sales, and
operating revenue by customer classes for the base year on an unadjusted basis;
and
          (b)   Number and classification of customers, volume of sales, and
operating revenue by customer classes for the base year on a normalized basis:
            1.   Using current rates; and
            2.   Using proposed rates.
(Prior Code, § 3-1210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4610 and 19-4611
§ 53.31 COST OF SERVICE; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The city, in the exercise of its power under this subchapter to
determine just and reasonable rates for public utilities, shall give due
consideration to the public need for adequate, efficient, and reasonable
natural gas service and to the need of the utility for revenue sufficient to
enable it to meet the cost of furnishing the service; including adequate
provisions for depreciation of its utility property used and useful in
rendering service to the public, and to earn a fair and reasonable return upon
the investment in such property.
   (B)   Cost of service shall include operating expenses and a fair and
reasonable return on rate base, less appropriate credits.
   (C)   In determining a fair and reasonable return on the rate base of a
utility, a rate of return percentage shall be employed that is representative
of the utility’s weighted average cost of capital, including, but not limited
to, long-term debt, preferred stock, and common equity capital.
   (D)   The rate base of the utility shall consist of the utility’s property,
used and useful in providing utility service, including the applicable
investment in utility plant, less accumulated depreciation and amortization
allowance for working capital, such other items as may be reasonably included,
and reasonable allocations of common property, less such investment as may be
reasonably attributed to other than investor-supplied capital, unless such
deduction is otherwise prohibited by law.
   (E)   Operating expenses shall consist of expenses prudently incurred to
provide natural gas service, including a reasonable allocation of common
expenses.
   (F)   In determining the cost of service, the city shall give effect to all
costs and allocations upstream of the city’s border station of the utility as
reflected in the rate schedules approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission or its successor.
(Prior Code, § 3-1211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4612
§ 53.32 BASE YEAR; REJECTION.
   (A)   For utilities using a base year adjusted for known and measurable
changes, the utility shall provide, at the time of filing, explanations of the
adjustments used to arrive at known and measurable changes. For utilities using
a projected test year, the utility shall provide, at the time of filing, the
assumptions underlying its projected test year.
   (B)   A municipality may not reject a utility’s rate filing for failing to
provide beginning balances for the rate base of the base year and test year
under §
53.30(B)(3); if the utility states at the time of filing that the rate base
which it proposes to use for ratemaking purposes properly matches the number of
customers, sales volume, expenses, and any other relevant factors and provides
supporting explanations and data.
(Prior Code, § 3-1212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4613
§ 53.33 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   After a rate filing has been filed with a city, the city may request
supplemental information from the utility relevant to the rate filing. As used
in this section, relevant or relevance shall relate only to the limitations on
information requests that are authorized by this section. Relevant supplemental
information shall relate to factors involved in setting appropriate rates. The
utility shall not be required to perform analyses or analytical studies of
information in responding to requests for supplemental information. Historical
data more than one calendar year older than the date of the last general rate
filing shall be presumed to be irrelevant, except to the extent that such data
was utilized by the utility in the rate filing. Requests for data related to
the management, operations, and profitability of affiliated businesses or
operations of the utility shall be presumed irrelevant; except to the extent
such requests relate to the question of whether the municipal customer is
subsidizing the cost of the affiliate. Data from any report or records, or data
required by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to be kept by the utility
are presumed to be relevant. Any records of the utility used in filings or in
the preparation of filings to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall be
open for inspection by the city or its agents at the utility’s principal place
of business during regular business hours.
   (B)   All supplemental information requests shall be made as soon as
reasonably possible after the filing. The utility shall respond completely and
faithfully to any relevant request for supplemental information, and shall make
a good faith effort to respond within 20 days of receipt of such requests.
Except as provided in division (C) below, failure to so respond shall suspend
the running of the 180-day time period provided for in §
53.27(D) until the supplemental information is provided. Such suspension shall
not affect the calculation of time for the imposition of interim rates.
   (C)   Request for supplemental information made by a municipality shall be
subject to appeal to the district court. The court shall review the request and
enter an order requiring the utility to respond or rejecting the request based
on the standards set forth in this section. Any appeal from a supplemental
information request shall suspend the running of the 180-day time period
provided for in §
53.27(D) during the pendency of such appeal, unless the court rules that the
request was irrelevant. Such suspension shall not affect the calculation of the
time for the imposition of interim rates.
(Prior Code, § 3-1213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4614
§ 53.34 RATE INCREASE; NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   Notice of filings for any rate increase under this subchapter shall be
given within 30 days of filing by publication by placing a notice to the public
of the proposed change in a newspaper having general circulation in the city,
except that a utility may provide notice to the public by mailing such notice
by U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of each directly affected
customer, or by including the notice in such customer’s bill in a conspicuous
form. An affidavit signed by an official of a utility and describing the method
of publication of the notice shall be filed with the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the utility;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the increase as it pertains to the typical
residential customer;
      (3)   The percentage amount of the increase; and
      (4)   The name and address of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4615
§ 53.35 REPORT; REBUTTAL; HEARING; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   A report specifying the reasons supporting any action recommended to
the city by the city staff or any agent or employee employed by or on behalf of
the city to assist it in rate regulation shall be provided to the city and the
utility within 120 countable days of the date of the rate filing. Relevant
information requests regarding the report may be made by the utility to the
city and shall be responded to as soon as reasonably possible prior to the date
for the ruling of the rebuttal.
   (B)   Within seven countable days after receipt of the report, the utility
and the city identified in §
53.36 may mutually agree to discuss resolution of the rate filing issues, and
may mutually agree to suspend the date of final action and time periods set
forth in this chapter for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Within 14 countable days after receipt of the report, the utility
shall file its rebuttal. Relevant information requests regarding the rebuttal
may be made by the city to the utility and shall be responded to as soon as
reasonably possible prior to the area rate hearing provided for in this
section.
   (D)   No sooner than seven days after the utility files its rebuttal, an
area rate hearing shall be held in the city having the largest number of
customers in the rate area. Such hearing shall be conducted by a Hearing
Officer appointed by the city identified in §
53.36. Such Hearing Officer shall have experience in the conduct of hearings so
as to ensure the fair, impartial, and expeditious conduct of the proceedings
and the creation of a record of the proceedings. The utility shall be given
written notice of such rate hearing and the name of the Hearing Officer by the
end of the one hundred twenty-eighth countable day after the date of filing.
The municipalities and the utility shall be granted the opportunity at such
hearing to call witnesses, present evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and argue
the evidence. Prior to such hearing, the Hearing Officer shall establish
procedures for the conduct of the hearing to comply with this provision. The
utility shall present as evidence at the hearing all the information which it
desires to have considered by the city in its consideration of the rates to be
adopted. Following the hearing, the utility and the municipalities shall
provide to the Hearing Officer their proposed findings of fact and conclusions
of law. A Certified Court Reporter shall be present at the hearing and shall
prepare a transcript of the proceedings.
   (E)   The official record of the hearing shall consist of the rate filing,
all reports, all evidence presented by the utility and the municipalities, all
documents and information presented at the hearing, the transcript of the
proceedings, and the proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law presented
to the Hearing Officer by the municipalities and the utility. A copy of the
official record shall be transmitted by the Hearing Officer to each
municipality in the rate area.
   (F)   Following the hearing and within 180 countable days of the date of
filing, each municipality within the rate area shall take final action on the
rate filing by adopting findings of fact and conclusions of law and a rate
ordinance based on such findings and conclusions. If the city does not take
action within that 180 countable day period, the rates filed by the utility in
its rate filing shall become final and no longer subject to refund.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of state law or any local ordinance, the
adoption of a rate ordinance shall require no more than a vote of a majority of
the elected members of any governing body of a municipality made at one public
meeting after compliance with public notice requirements and a public hearing
on the proposed ordinance.
   (G)   Within 30 days of the date of final action by the municipalities
within a rate area, a utility may initiate proceedings for judicial review of
the decision of any municipality in the rate area to the district court. At the
time the utility initiates action for judicial review, it shall join in such
action as parties all municipalities in the rate area whose actions are being
challenged.
   (H)   In no event shall the district court render a decision upon a judicial
review of municipal action later than 180 days after the filing of the action.
   (I)   The utility shall, within 30 days of the date of final action, unless
it takes timely action to initiate judicial review, implement the rates
established by the action of the city and shall, within 60 days of such action,
make refunds, if any, with interest as provided in §
53.27(D).
(Prior Code, § 3-1215)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4616
§ 53.36 LOAN FUND; APPLICANTS.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Natural Gas Regulation Revolving Loan Fund shall be
used to make loans to municipalities for rate regulation and to pay the costs
of administration. The fund shall consist of money appropriated from the State
Energy Resource Fund and money from repayment of loans. The fund shall be
administered by the Policy Research Office which shall adopt and promulgate
rules and regulations to carry out this section. The rules and regulations
shall include:
         (a)   Loan application procedures and forms; and
         (b)   Fund-use monitoring and quarterly accounting of fund use.
      (2)   Applicants for a loan from the fund shall provide a budget
statement which specifies the proposed use of the loan proceeds. Such proceeds
may only be used for the costs and expenses incurred by the city to analyze
rate filings and establish area-wide rates, and to finance litigation costs of
any appeals. Such costs and expenses may include the cost of rate consultants,
attorneys, hearing officers, preparation of transcripts, and hearing records
provided for by this chapter, expert witnesses, and any other necessary costs
related to the conduct and administration of the hearing provided for in §
53.35(D). One loan may be made under this section to each rate area, and such
loan shall be made to the applicant representing the largest number of
customers. All loans made under this section shall be paid by the utility to
the Policy Research Office within 30 days of being billed by the office. The
utility may recover the amount paid on a loan through a special surcharge on
customers which may be billed on the monthly statements for up to a 12-month
period, to be shown on the statements as a charge for rate regulation expense.
   (B)   The city’s Natural Gas Regulation Revolving Loan Fund shall be audited
as part of the regular audit of the Policy Research Office budget and copies of
the audit shall be available to all municipalities and any utility supplying
natural gas in this state.
   (C)   Any money in the city’s Natural Gas Regulation Revolving Loan Fund
available for investment shall be invested by the State Investment Officer
pursuant to Neb. RS 72-1237 to 72-1269. If the fund balance exceeds $400,000,
the income on the money in the fund shall be credited to the permanent school
fund until the balance of the city’s Natural Gas Regulation Revolving Loan Fund
falls below such amount.
   (D)   A municipality which receives a loan under this section shall be
responsible to provide for the opportunity for all other municipalities to
participate in all rate area activities. Such municipality shall not exclude
any other municipality in the rate area from the information or benefits
accruing from the use of the loan funds.
(Prior Code, § 3-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4617
§ 53.37 REVIEW AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Once in any 36-month period, one or more municipalities in each rate
area may initiate a proceeding for a review and possible adjustment in rates to
conform such rates to the standards of § 3-1311 of this chapter by the
introduction of a resolution for such purpose. The city shall provide to the
utility seven days’ prior written notice of the meeting at which such
resolution is to be considered and a copy of the proposed resolution. Following
adoption of the resolution, the City Clerk shall send a copy of the resolution
by certified mail to the utility. The city may request the information required
by §
53.30(B) to be provided by the utility within 120 days of the receipt of the
notice unless otherwise agreed. Following filing of the information required in
§
53.30(B), the city may make additional requests as provided in §
53.33. The utility shall be provided with a copy of any reports and analyses
prepared for the city in its consideration of a rate adjustment. To the fullest
extent possible, the general procedures provided for in §
53.35(A) through (F) shall be followed by the city and the utility; except that
calculations of time periods shall be from the date on which the city receives
the information specified in §
53.30(B) and not from the date of filing. Nothing in this section shall require
the participation in the proceedings of every municipality in the rate area.
During the pendency of all proceedings under this section, and through the
period of judicial review of those proceedings, the rate in effect prior to the
time the city adopts the resolution provided for in this section shall remain
in effect. The provisions of §
53.27(D)(5) shall be applicable to this section.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter, no municipality shall be entitled
to any filing fees or assessments against the utility when the city initiates a
rate adjustment, nor shall the city receive a loan under §
53.36 for such purposes. If the utility initiates judicial review of the
decision of a municipality under this section and the court upholds the
decision of the city, the court may award the city litigation expenses to
include attorney’s fees, expert witness fees, consultant fees, and such other
related expenses as the court finds to be properly related to the judicial
review. Any action for judicial review shall be initiated in the district
court. If appropriate resolutions are adopted by municipalities representing
70% or more of the customers in the rate area initiating a proceeding for
review and possible adjustment of natural gas rates, the applicant representing
the largest number of customers shall be given a loan for such purposes upon
the terms of §
53.36.
(Prior Code, § 3-1217)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4618
§ 53.38 CIVIL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter,
the rules of civil procedure and discovery shall apply.
   (B)   Review of the decisions of the district court under this chapter shall
be by appeal to the Supreme Court.
(Prior Code, § 3-1218)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4619
§ 53.39 PRIORITY OF CHAPTER.
   All actions and proceedings under this chapter which are heard by the
district court or the Supreme Court shall be expedited for hearing and decision
by the appropriate court as soon as the issues and parties are properly before
such court. Such proceedings and actions shall be preferred over all other
civil cases irrespective of position on the calendar.
(Prior Code, § 3-1219)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4620
§ 53.40 RECORDS; ACCURATE.
   (A)   Every utility shall be required to keep and render its books,
accounts, papers, and records accurately and truthfully in accordance with the
systems of accounts prescribed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or
its successor.
   (B)   All accounting information provided by utilities to municipalities
shall be presented in accordance with the system of accounts prescribed by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3-1220)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4621
§ 53.41 CUSTOMERS; RIGHT TO APPEAR AT HEARING.
   Customers of the utility in a rate area shall have the right to appear,
participate, and present testimony at the hearing provided for in §
53.35, and shall have such evidence considered by the municipalities in the
rate determination. When the interests of any customers are substantially
similar, the Hearing Officer may provide that such class of customers join in
presentation of the evidence at the hearing so as to expedite the proceedings.
Customers who desire to present testimony and participate at the hearing shall
follow the requirements for municipal staff or agents as provided in §
53.35(A). All customers shall be provided with notice of these rights, which
notice shall be provided by the utility in the notice required by §
53.34.
(Prior Code, § 3-1221)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4622
§ 53.42 RETROACTIVE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be enforced retroactively from the
effective date of this chapter. Any rate filing made prior to such date shall
be governed by the law existing on the date the rate filing was made.
(Prior Code, § 3-1222)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-4623
§ 53.43 REGULATIONS; RATE FILING FEE.
   The city shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rating. The fee shall be an amount as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1223) (Ord. 438, passed 10-6-1987)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Contracts and terms
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Electrical service contracts
   
54.05   Electrician
   
54.06   Installation expense
   
54.07   Meters
   
54.08   Fees and collections
   
54.09   Rates
   
54.10   Service deposit fund
   
54.11   Delinquent payments
   
54.12   Restricted use
   
54.13   Building moving
   
54.14   Trimming trees
   
54.15   Inspections
   
54.16   Destruction of property
   
54.17   Load control management
   
54.18   Interconnection procedures
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and operates the city’s electrical system through the
Utilities Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the city’s electrical system,
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
City Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management
and control of the city’s electrical system, and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the electrical system
subject to the supervision and review of the City Council. The City Council
shall, by ordinance, set the rates to be charged for services rendered and
shall file the same in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, and 17-909
§ 54.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric current
for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire
of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such other
persons within or without its corporate limits as and when, according to law,
the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and rates for
electric service hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part
of every application hereafter made for electric service, and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant, or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers, and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer, shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
city to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
City Council may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
agent shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building or
place of such violation, and no further connection of electric service for such
building or place shall again be made, save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.02
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefore to the Utilities Superintendent. Electricity may not be supplied to
any house or building except upon the written order of the Utilities
Superintendent. The system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate
limits electrical service without special permission from the City Council;
provided, that the entire cost of wire, installation, and other expenses shall
be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city
to supply electrical service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-903) (Ord. 385, passed 11-10-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 54.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premises
where service is furnished in his or her name, or if the said premises is
destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the
Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off
from the said premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or
she shall be charged for all electricity used on the said premises until the
Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-904)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.05 ELECTRICIAN.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this city and the meter of the consumer,
except by an employee of the city or an electrician authorized to do so by the
Utilities Superintendent. The consumer may have wiring done by any competent
electrician from the meter to the points of distribution. All wiring,
equipment, and apparatus shall be installed according to the Electrical Code
duly adopted by the city. All installation shall be done under the supervision
and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for
such installation prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent and Building
Inspector; provided, that such rules, regulations, and specifications have been
reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-905)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The city shall provide the electrical meter up to and including 200 amps.
Anything over 200 amps, consumer pays the difference in cost. The city will
have final approval of electrical sockets installed. The expense of above
ground installation and wiring from the weatherhead to the points of
distribution shall be the responsibility of the consumer. Underground
installation may be requested by the consumer and, upon approval of said
underground installation, the consumer shall pay all expense above and beyond
the expense of providing above ground installation by the city, including any
additional expense in providing an electrical disconnect switch at a point
located at or near the point where the service line enters the ground.
Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-906) (Ord. 369, passed 10-5-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.07 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month during
which electrical service is used, between the twentieth day and the last day of
the month. In the event a meter is broken or otherwise fails to register
accurately the use of electricity by any consumer, the six-month average of the
season one year previous to such breakage shall be used for billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-907)
§ 54.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file for
public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill
the consumers and collect all money received by the city on the account of the
city’s electrical system. He or she shall faithfully account for and pay over
the same to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his
or her receipt therefore in duplicate, filing one with the City Clerk, and
keeping the other on file in his or her official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-908)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.09 RATES.
   All electric consumers shall be liable for the rates as set forth in the
city’s fee schedule.
   (A)   Residential service.
      (1)   Availability. Service is available in the corporate limits of the
city, or outside the corporate limits of the city, and located in the city
service area agreement on file with the Nebraska Power Review Board.
      (2)   Applicability. Residential service is applicable including
separately metered apartments. New apartment houses served by one meter for the
entire building shall be billed on the commercial or large light and power rate
that is applicable. Existing are billed the customer charge for each unit and
the KWh charges under this rate.
      (3)   Character of service. Includes 60-cycle, AC, single-phase, 120
volts two wire, or 120/240 volt three wire.
      (4)   Rates. Rate one shall apply for electrical consumption in the
months of June, July, August, and September, and rate two shall apply for
electrical consumption in the months of the calendar year not listed above.
Specific rates are as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   General service.
      (1)   Availability. Service is available in the corporate limits of the
city, or outside the corporate limits of the city, and located in the city
service area agreement on file with the Nebraska Power Review Board.
      (2)   Applicability. Service is applicable to any customer whose entire
requirements are taken through one meter and whose peak demand does not exceed
55 kW or 10,000 kWh for three consecutive months. If usage exceeds these
limits, the rate will be reviewed, and customer may be billed under large light
and power. Single-phase motors or other single-phase power and heating
equipment shall not exceed 5 HP or 5 KW individual capacity except by special
permission.
      (3)   Character of service. Includes AC, 60-cycle, single-, or three-
phase, at any of the city’s standard voltages, where service may be supplied by
a single power transformation.
      (4)   Rates. Rate one shall apply for electrical consumption in the
months of June, July, August, and September, and rate two shall apply for
electrical consumption in the months of the calendar year not listed above.
Specific rates are as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
      (5)   Installation of demand meter. At the option of the city, a demand
meter may be installed on any general service customer for ascertaining loads.
Customers with demands of 35 kilowatts or more for three consecutive months may
request service under the large light and power rate.
   (C)   Large light and power service.
      (1)   Availability. Service is available in the corporate limits of the
city, or outside the corporate limits of the city, and located in the city
service area agreement on file with the Nebraska Power Review Board.
      (2)   Applicability. Service is applicable to any customer whose entire
requirements are taken through one meter under a contract of standard form.
      (3)   Character of service. Includes AC, 60-cycle, single-, or three-
phase, at any of the city’s standard voltages, where service may be supplied by
a single power transformation.
      (4)   Rates. Rate one shall apply for electrical consumption in the
months of June, July, August, and September, and rate two shall apply for
electrical consumption in the months of the calendar year not listed above.
Specific rates are as set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
      (5)   Demand charge. The maximum metered demand in the current billing
month, but not less than 55% of the highest demand established in the most
recent summer period (June, July, August, and September) .
   (D)   Production cost adjustment. The rates and the billings for the service
rendered hereunder may be adjusted administratively, with Council approval,
from month to month to reflect the change in production cost adjustments
charged by the city’s supplier(s).
   (E)   Terms of payment. Bills are due on the twenty-fifth of each month for
prior month’s usage and payable upon receipt. Payments shall be delinquent if
not paid before noon on the twenty-sixth of the same month. Any payments made
after shall be subject to an additional charge of 10% of the balance due.
Electric service shall be discontinued to those consumers who remain unpaid
after payments become due according to the laws of the state. A disconnection/
reconnect charge shall be assessed against said consumer; service shall be
reconnected upon full payment.
(Prior Code, § 3-909) (Ord. 358, passed 10-23-1975; Ord. 367, passed 10-5-1976;
Ord. 400, passed 3-5-1985; Ord. 624, passed 8-6-2002; Ord. 641, passed 12-4-
2003; Ord. 649, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 690, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. 762, passed
9-12-2023; Ord. 764, passed 1-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.10 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   The service deposit required for electrical service shall be promptly paid
upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From the said deposit
shall be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. If, after two years, there
are no delinquent electric charges, the deposit shall be refunded to the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-910)
§ 54.11 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Utilities Superintendent. If said fees are not paid within 15 days after the
same become due, there shall be assessed a 10% penalty for such delinquency. If
payment is not received by the twenty-sixth day of the month, the electricity
may be turned off after ten days’ notice by mail to the subscriber and not
turned on again until all back fees and charges are paid, including any penalty
charge which the City Council may, by resolution, prescribe; provided, if the
delinquent customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to notify the customer and also the Department of Social Services by
certified mail of the proposed termination of service. The owner of the
premises will, in all cases, be held primarily responsible and will be required
to pay for electricity at such premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-911)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.12 RESTRICTED USE.
   The city’s electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The city shall use due care and
reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers,
but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of service due
to causes over which the city has no control; and the city expressly reserves
the right to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without
preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-912)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.13 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary, and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
city’s electrical system, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order,
paid in advance, the actual cost of moving the said wires; and such cost shall
be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All
expense of removing, changing, and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the
electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving, and
any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if, in the course of moving the said building or
house, it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such
additional deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-913)
§ 54.14 TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the city’s electrical system shall, before
doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities
Superintendent, and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or
she may prescribe for doing such work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so.
   (C)   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electrical system, the City Council shall have the power to order cut and
removed any overhanging branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be
free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-914) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.15 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-915)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the city’s electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-916) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.17 LOAD CONTROL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Every electrical meter serviced by the city’s electrical system shall
have load control management hooked to it for the purpose of regulating the
peak electrical use in the city. All new electrical services shall include the
load control management device before it shall be approved for connection with
the city’s electrical system. The city shall provide the load control
management devices and shall pay the cost of their installation on all services
in effect as of the date of this section. All new electrical services shall
receive the load management control device from the city, and installation
shall be the cost of the city.
   (B)   Any electrical service found to have the load control management
device disconnected shall have their electrical service immediately
disconnected from the city’s electrical system, and it will remain disconnected
until such time as the management load control device has been reinstalled on
the service. A reconnection fee of an amount as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule will be charged to any service needing to be reconnected as a result
of the disconnection or removal of the load control management device.
(Prior Code, § 3-917) (Ord. 564, passed 9-15-1998)
§ 54.18 INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 70-2001 to 70-2005, the city finds and declares it
to be in the public interest and in the interest of the customers of the city’s
electric utility that the city adopt net metering policies.
   (B)   The city shall allow a customer generator’s retail electricity
consumption to be offset by the electricity generated from eligible energy
resources on the customer generator side of the meter that are interconnected
with the facilities of the city owned utility.
   (C)   The city shall provide for “avoided costs” as the new rate for the net
metering services; along with certain uniform standards and procedures for
privately owned electrical generation to be net metered.
   (D)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 70-2001 to 70-2005, the city shall interconnect
the qualified facility of any customer generator that enters into an
interconnection agreement, satisfies the requirement for a qualified facility,
and pays for costs incurred by the city.
   (E)   Attached to the ordinance codified herein, and approved as if fully
set out in this section, are the following documents to be used in the net
metering process:
      (1)   The city’s application for approval to connect distributed or local
generation; and
      (2)   The net metering service rate schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-918) (Ord. 724, passed 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 55: GARBAGE
Section
City Dump
   
55.01   Operation and funding
   
55.02   Use charge
Solid Waste
   
55.15   Collection and disposal of solid waste
   
55.16   Solid waste collection franchise sanitation contractor; duties and
responsibilities
   
55.17   Solid waste collection and disposal fees; deposit
CITY DUMP
§ 55.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city dump. The City Council, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the city
dump, may each year levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Dump Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
City Treasurer. The City Council shall have the direct management and control
of the city dump. The City Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the dump. The City
Council shall provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the
dump, and shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
resolution, and file the same in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 55.02 USE CHARGE.
   For the use of the city dump, a rental or use charge is hereby established,
as follows: each municipal water meter located within the city limits or
outside the city limits shall be billed every month a flat fee of an amount as
set forth in the city’s fee schedule per month.
(Prior Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 451, passed 12-5-1989)
SOLID WASTE
§ 55.15 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   All solid waste generated and accumulated within the planning jurisdiction
map of the city shall be disposed of according to the terms and conditions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 755, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 55.16 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FRANCHISE SANITATION CONTRACTOR; DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The sanitation contractor shall mean the city’s designated sanitation
contractor. The terms and conditions of the sanitation contractor are listed in
the bid specifications and associated agreement for solid waste services, which
are incorporated by reference. The city has granted an exclusive franchise for
solid waste collection and roll-off containers for special collection within
the city planning jurisdiction; as and shown on the official planning
jurisdiction map.
(Ord. 755, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 55.17 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL FEES; DEPOSIT.
   Solid waste collection and disposal fees and deposit shall be as set by the
City Council from time to time. The rates for the collection and disposal of
solid waste for the city are as set for in the city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 755, passed 5-2-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.03   Truck routes
   
70.04   Turning; generally
   
70.05   Position of vehicle on highway
   
70.06   Crosswalks
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.08   School crossing zones; designation
   
70.09   Signs; unauthorized display
Operator and Vehicle Qualifications
   
70.20   Regulation; operator and vehicle license
   
70.21   Vehicle; muffler
   
70.22   Loads; projecting
   
70.23   Semi tractors; prohibited noises
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE and continues until
a sign or traffic control device indicates that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the State Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority of
the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the State Rules of the
Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices,
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the City Council or its designated
representative or in a place, time, or manner which has been prohibited by the
City Council shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation
of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of
any or all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger
the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural
features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for persons operating
such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for trucks; unless
to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that event, the
operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as soon as possible in
traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall cause notices to be
posted, or shall erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck
routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,189
§ 70.04 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand side of the
highway, and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning, shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,159
§ 70.05 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-half of
the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,131
§ 70.06 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as they may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the State Rules of
the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in the
Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601 et seq.
§ 70.08 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area
of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the use
of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City Council in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted, see Neb. RS 60-6,118
§ 70.09 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and is subject to
removal with or without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,127
OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
§ 70.20 REGULATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having first registered the same in accordance with Neb.
RS Ch. 60, Art. 3, except as provided in this section. A person may operate a
motor vehicle without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the
date of purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have the required
number plates displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places provided for
by Neb. RS 60-399.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 4. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or public highway during the
period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) (Ord. 486, passed 8-24-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,137
§ 70.22 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the
extreme rear end of such load.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243
§ 70.23 SEMI TRACTORS; PROHIBITED NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of said city to make, or
cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices
operated by compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any
semi-tractor, commonly referred to as jakebraking. The City Council shall cause
notices to be posted, or erect signs indicating such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-519) (Ord. 651, passed 3-1-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits, generally
   
71.02   Driving under the influence
   
71.03   Reckless driving
   
71.04   Careless driving
   
71.05   Negligent driving
   
71.06   Backing
   
71.07   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.08   Radar device prohibited
   
71.09   Electronic speed detection
   
71.10   Child passenger restraint system
   
71.11   School crossing zones; overtaking and passing
   
71.12   Accident; driver duties
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS, GENERALLY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
(Neb. RS 60-6,196(1))
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the city shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or urine for
the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of
drugs in such blood, breath, or urine.
(Neb. RS 60-6,197(1))
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have
been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or urine for
the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of
drugs in such blood, breath, or urine when the officer has reasonable grounds
to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual physical control
of a motor vehicle in the city while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs in violation of division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,197(2))
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of this state or ordinances of the city may require
any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a motor
vehicle in the city to submit to a preliminary test of his or her breath for
alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving traffic
violation, or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who refuses
to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath test
results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A) above
shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-6,197(3))
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath, or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) above, or
if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this
section, the person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-6,205 to 60-6,208 and shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-6,197(4))
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for violation of this section, there
shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any physician
or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance
with Neb. RS 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis thereof if
such test was actually made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,203)
(Prior Code, § 5-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall
be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such, shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
   (B)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
a willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving and shall be punished as provided by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182 and 60-6,213 through 60-6,218
§ 71.04 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a vehicle in a manner so as to endanger or be likely
to endanger any person or property shall be guilty of careless driving and
shall be punished as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182 and 60-6,212
§ 71.05 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate lack
of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use under
like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 71.06 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the city
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles;
provided, vehicles shall be allowed to stop to load or unload property or
passengers if said vehicle is stopped at the curb or as close as possible so as
not to impede traffic.
(Prior Code, § 5-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 RADAR DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or possess any radar
transmission device while operating a motor vehicle on any road, street,
highway, or interstate highway in the city; except that this section shall not
apply to any such device which has been lawfully licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission or is being used by law enforcement officials in
their official duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POSSESSION. To have a radar transmission device in a motor vehicle if
such device is not:
         (a)   Disconnected from all power sources; and
         (b)   In the rear trunk, which shall include the spare tire
compartment or any other compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while such vehicle is in operation. If no such
compartment exists in a vehicle, then such device must be disconnected from all
power sources and be placed in a position not readily accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle.
      RADAR TRANSMISSION DEVICE. Any mechanism designed to interfere with the
reception of radio microwaves in the electromagnetic spectrum, which
microwaves, commonly referred to as radar, are employed by law enforcement
officials to measure the speed of motor vehicles.
      TRANSCEIVER. An apparatus contained in a single housing, functioning
alternately as a radio transmitter and receiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,276
§ 71.09 ELECTRONIC SPEED DETECTION.
   (A)   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle, based
upon the visual observation of any law enforcement officer, may be corroborated
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
radio microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as
competent evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal
proceeding when the speed of the vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   Before the city may offer in evidence the results of such radio
microwave or other electronic speed measurement for the purpose of establishing
the speed of any motor vehicle, the city shall prove the following:
      (1)   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
      (2)   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under
such conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
      (3)   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement
was qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the
device; and
      (4)   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the
measuring device within a reasonable time, both prior to and subsequent to an
arrest being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working
order.
   (C)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device, or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a description of
the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Prior Code, § 5-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,192
§ 71.10 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to have
seat safety belts, shall ensure that all children under the age of four or
weighing less than 40 pounds being transported in such vehicle, use a child
restraint system of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
213 as developed by the Highway Safety Administration as of the effective date
of this Act and which is correctly installed in such vehicle; and all children
weighing 40 pounds or more or at least four years of age and younger than five
years of age being transported in such vehicle, use a seat safety belt;
provided, however, this section does not apply to taxicabs, mopeds,
motorcycles, and any other vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963
year model or earlier which is not equipped with a seat safety belt.
   (B)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines through accepted medical procedures that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition, or other medical reason, the provisions of
division (A) above shall be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such
a child shall carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written
statement of the physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for
such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles as defined in Neb. RS 39-
602 shall not be subject to the requirements of division (A) above when
operating such authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (D)   The Department of Motor Vehicles shall develop and implement an
ongoing public information and education program regarding the use of child
passenger restraint systems and seat safety belts.
(Prior Code, § 5-215) (Ord. 410, passed 11-5-1985; Ord. 465, passed 2-5-1991)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
§ 71.11 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the City Council in which the roadway
has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-216) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,134.01
§ 71.12 ACCIDENT; DRIVER DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road, or
private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
          (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number, and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave
in a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) above. In
addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
(Neb. RS 60-696)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the registration number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Neb. RS 60-697)
(Prior Code, § 5-217) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Parking; generally
   
72.02   Designation
   
72.03   Areas
   
72.04   Alleys
   
72.05   Truck parking, loading, and unloading
   
72.06   Machinery
   
72.07   Maximum limit
   
72.08   Painting of curbs
   
72.09   Repair
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Private property
   
72.13   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
   
72.14   Parking Violations Bureau
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
72.35   Definitions
   
72.36   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.37   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces and access aisles
   
72.38   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.39   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.40   Permits; issuance; prohibitions; duplicates
   
72.41   Permits; period of validity; renewal of temporary permits
   
72.42   Permits nontransferable
   
72.43   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
72.44   Citation; complaint
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the City Council designates
that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel
at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the
curb or pavement, vehicles must all be parked within such stalls.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or edge of roadway or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the
curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 72.03 AREAS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.04 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 MACHINERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any machinery, whether motor-
propelled or not, on the streets of the city for a period longer than 30
minutes at one time and any 24-hour period; provided, MACHINERY shall not mean
trucks and automobiles.
(Prior Code, § 5-508) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 MAXIMUM LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave unattended any
unlicensed operable or inoperable motor vehicle, watercraft, recreational
vehicle, motorcycle, motorized equipment, or trailer upon the public streets or
alleys of the city for more than 24 hours. City law enforcement and city
employees are hereby empowered to remove the advised vehicle(s) if the vehicle
remains in the street for more than 24 hours of if the vehicle presents a
hazard for public safety or creates a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 740, passed 6-2-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the City Council, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 REPAIR.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of the city,
excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or
employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets,
or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 5-511) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police, or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park or permit to be parked a registered or
unregistered motor vehicle, watercraft, recreational vehicle, non-motorized
camper, motorcycle, motorized equipment, or trailer designed to be pulled by a
motor vehicle or to carry a watercraft, camper, or motor vehicle at any time on
any portion of his or her yard, except on an area that is an “improved” parking
area, is paved, or is a driveway. This prohibition shall be in effect unless it
has been deemed an emergency that any such vehicle listed above is required to
be placed on said yard, or unless the property is in a commercially zoned area
and is used for purposes of a commercial business.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, IMPROVED shall mean surfaced with
asphalt, concrete, brick, or other suitable pavers. Gravel or crushed stone may
be used if gravel is at least two inches deep throughout the vehicular use
area, and the vehicular use area has a visible and definable edge made of
landscape timbers, decorative pavers, metal edging, vegetation such as low
shrubs or decorative grasses, or similar technique to distinguish the vehicular
use area.
(Prior Code, § 5-514) (Ord. 742, passed 6-2-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.14 PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the Office of the City Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for non-
moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the City Clerk, whose duty it
shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate records
of all such fines paid to him or her. Fines shall be payable at the Office of
the City Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of $10 for each violation if
paid within 30 days from the date of issuance. Should any such fine not be paid
within the 30-day period, the City Clerk shall ask the City Attorney, or such
other attorney the city has designated to prosecute city offenses, to file a
complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction. The fine for any such
violations after 30 days or after judgment is entered against the violator
shall be $50 plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 5-520) (Ord. 687, passed 8-4-2009)
PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued by the department
that authorizes the use of parking spaces and access aisles that have been
designated for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON, TEMPORARILY. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. Violation of any section of this subchapter
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1741.01
§ 72.36 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.06;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles
display the permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 72.37 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The city and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the city or person for exclusive use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113.06;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
such permit. Such designation shall be made by posting above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-
1737.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.38 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder
to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when
the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in such spaces or access aisles. For the purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit, shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician’s assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.39, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
§ 72.39 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces or
access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person, and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit,
pursuant to this section, shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to
the City Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
City Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.38, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the Nebraska Revised Statutes.
§ 72.40 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; PROHIBITIONS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle
if any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
and such permit has been suspended, pursuant to §
72.42.
      (2)   At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in
the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
§ 72.41 PERMITS; PERIOD OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   (1)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months.
      (2)   For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability.
§ 72.42 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped
parking infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of
this chapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than
$250, which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court.
      (2)   At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.43 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police and the city, if it provides on-
street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons, or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in §
72.44.
      (2)   The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (3)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately-owned off-street parking facility, the city
shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such facility to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.44 CITATION; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney, or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense, shall issue and file a complaint charging
such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued, the complaint shall be dismissed, if, within seven
business days after the date of issuance of the citation, the person cited
files with the court the affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit issued under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-
1738.01, and that the peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, and 18-1741.06
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The city police or other authorized law enforcement shall have the
authority to fine, remove, or both for this municipal violation. The fine for
first offense is $25, second offense is $75, and third offense or more is $100.
This is to also include any fees incurred by the city for the removal of the
vehicle which will be at the property owners’ cost.
(Ord. 742, passed 6-2-2020)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Bicycles; operation
   
73.02   Minibikes; unlawful operation
   
73.03   Motorcycles and minibikes prohibited on public areas
   
73.04   Snowmobiles; unlawful acts
   
73.05   Horses; prohibited on public areas
   
73.06   Motorized wheelchairs and golf carts
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.20   Definition
   
73.21   Operation within city limits permitted; restrictions
   
73.22   Equipment; requirement
   
73.23   Promotions
   
73.24   Competition
   
73.25   Accident report
   
73.26   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 BICYCLES; OPERATION.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto; and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting. No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks bordering Main
Street from First Street to Fourth Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, and 60-6,318
§ 73.02 MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the city. For purposes of this chapter,
MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire
diameter of less than 14 inches, or an engine rated capacity of less than 45
cubic centimeters displacement, or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily
designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-402) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347 and 60-6,352
§ 73.03 MOTORCYCLES AND MINIBIKES PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any MINIBIKE, as defined in §
73.02, or motorcycle on any public sidewalks, parks or playgrounds, or baseball
diamonds within the city; and it shall be unlawful to operate any minibike or
motorcycle on any street or path in any park, playground, or baseball diamond
within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following
day. Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-403) (Ord. 377, passed 7-10-1979) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the city unless weather conditions are
such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel, or
said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency; provided, snowmobiles
may be ridden on established trails within the city, if said trails have first
been approved by the City Council;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; or
    (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee, or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335 and 60-6,337
§ 73.05 HORSES; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride horses upon the public
sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, or baseball diamonds within the city; provided,
that horses may be ridden in such areas on trails if said trails have first
been approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS AND GOLF CARTS.
   It shall be lawful for anyone to operate a motorized wheelchair on the
sidewalks of the city providing they do not exceed a speed of two mph while
being operated on the sidewalks. It shall also be lawful for any person to
operate a motorized golf cart on the streets of the city during daylight hours.
Operators of motorized golf carts shall be subject to all the rules and
regulations applicable to any other motorized vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-406) (Ord. 622, passed 5-7-2002)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. 
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a day weight of 600 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
      (2)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES which have been modified to include additional
equipment not required by §
73.22 shall not be registered under Neb. RS Ch. 60, Art. 3.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 73.21 OPERATION WITHIN CITY LIMITS PERMITTED; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only, with no passengers, or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. 
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is not less than 48 inches, nor more than 74 inches in width;
            2.   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
            3.   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds, nor more than
2,000 pounds;
            4.   Travels on four or more low pressure tires; and
            5.   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
         (b)   Utility-type vehicle does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   (B)   An all-terrain and a utility-type vehicle may be operated on streets
and highways within the corporate limits of the city, only if the operator and
the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
    (C)   An all-terrain or a utility-type vehicle may be operated only between
the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in exceed
of 30 mph, or the posted speed limit, whichever is lower. When operating an
all-terrain or a utility-type vehicle, as authorized in division (B) above, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color.
   (D)   (1)   Any person operating an all-terrain or a utility-type vehicle,
as authorized in division (B) above shall:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age and possess a valid Class O
operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
         (b)   Have liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle, while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on a street or highway with such coverage to be at least the minimum
amount required to license a motor vehicle. The person operating the all-
terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof, within five days of such a request.
      (2)   No passenger may be less than seven years of age.
   (E)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with divisions (C) and (D) above, on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the state or any department, board, commission,
or political subdivision of the state.
   (F)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted. Divisions (B) through (D) above
and division (G) below authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain
vehicle or a utility-type vehicle only on a street or highway other than a
controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (G)   Subject to division (F) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted in an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle without
complying with divisions (C) and (D) above, only if:
      (1)   The crossing made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
       (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356)
   (H)   The city requires that all all-terrain vehicles or utility-type
vehicles shall display a permit issued by the City Clerk, before operating on
city streets.
      (1)   The fee for such permit shall be as set forth in the city’s fee
schedule. After the initial permit, renewals shall be payable annually, by May
1.
      (2)   An identifying sticker shall be provided by the city annually,
after payment of the fee and shall be displayed prominently on the all-terrain
or utility-type vehicle, as proof of this permit.
      (3)   Said sticker will be obtained at the City Office. At the initial
request for a sticker the applicant shall have the vehicle inspected and the
owner’s proof of insurance reviewed, by the City Police Department. Thereafter,
for renewal of the sticker the applicant need only show proof of insurance and
make payment of the annual fee.
      (4)   This permit must be acquired by all all-terrain or utility-type
vehicles operated on city streets, regardless of the jurisdiction in which the
owner resides, be it the county or another jurisdiction.
      (5)   A fine for failure to acquire such permit will be an amount as set
forth in the city’s fee schedule, in addition to any penalty for any other
infraction.
      (6)   Proof of insurance and valid Class O license must be carried by the
operator at all times of operation of the vehicle. A fine for failure to
provide this documentation during operation will be an amount as set forth in
the city’s fee schedule, in addition to any penalty for any other infraction.
(Prior Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 683, passed 3-4-2010; Ord. 697, passed 10-2-2012;
Ord. 722, passed 10-6-2015; Ord. 743, passed 9-1-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 EQUIPMENT; REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 73.23 PROMOTIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass, or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-2805
§ 73.24 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted
from §§
73.22 and
73.23 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-2806
§ 73.25 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Prior Code, § 5-607)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 73.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission, shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
73.21 through
73.25.
(Prior Code, § 5-609)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
73.21 through
73.25 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Ch. 39 or Ch. 60 may be punished
under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
   (C)   A person who violates §
73.21(A) shall be punished, as provided, generally, in the municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 5-608) (Ord. 743, passed 9-1-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits have been set by ordinance and appropriate signs
have been posted. It shall be unlawful to operate motor vehicle at speeds
greater than posted on the following streets:
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                        Location                              Speed Limit
                              From South Fourth Street to South
Crystal Street                Seventh Street, between the hours of  15 mph
                              8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. during any
                              school day in session
                              From Second Street to U.S. Highway 77
                              From South Fourth Street to South     25 mph
Diamond Street                Seventh Street, between the hours of  15 mph
                              8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. during any
                              school day in session
First Street                  From Main Street to Pearl Street      15 mph
                              From Lincoln Street to Diamond
Fifth Street and Sixth Street Street, between the hours of 8:00     15 mph
                              a.m. to 5:00 p.m. during the school
                              year
Main Street                   From Eighth Street west to Sixth      25 mph
                              Street
                              From Sixth Street west to the
Main Street                   western-most gate of the Lyons City   20 mph
                              Park, located on the west edge of the
                              city
Main Street                   From Burlington Northern Railway to   35 mph
                              U.S. Highway No.77
                              From Pearl Street to Grant Street,
South Fifth Street            between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5: 15 mph
                              00 p.m. during any school day in
                              session.
                              From Pearl Street to Diamond Street,
South Sixth Street            between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5: 15 mph
                              00 p.m. during any school day in
                              session
 
(Prior Code, § 5-205) (Ord. 361, passed 3-2-1976; Ord. 393, passed 8-1-1983;
Ord. 426, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 621, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 774, passed 9-10-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Truck parking
   
II.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck with three quarter ton
or more capacity anywhere upon Main Street for a longer period than 15 minutes
at one time, or more than 60 minutes in any 24 hours, to load or unload,
expeditiously, their contents; provided, that cars with a pick-up body weight
capacity not to exceed three-quarter ton or whose length does not exceed 20
feet are exempted.
(Prior Code, § 5-507) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II.NO PARKING ZONES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   There shall be no parking of vehicles allowed in the following zones:
Street Side Location
Street           Side        Location
Crystal Street   South side   
Custer Street    South side  Between Third Street and Fifth Street and Seventh
                             Street and Eighth Street
Diamond Street   Either side  
Everett Street   South side   
Fifth Street     Either side Between Main Street and Diamond Street
Lincoln Street   South side  Between Second Street and Third Street
Second Street    Either side From State Street to Diamond Street
Sixth Street     Either side From Main Street to Diamond Street
South 3rd Street West side   From State Street to Diamond Street
State Street     South side   
 
   (B)   There shall be no parking of semi-trailer trucks allowed on either
side of Second Street and Third Street between Main Street and State Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-516) (Ord. 616, passed 11-6-2001; Ord. 617, passed 1-8-2002;
Ord. 628, passed 3-4-2003; Ord. 676, passed 5-5-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Library
   
90.15   Funding
   
90.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.17   Grounds and building
   
90.18   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.19   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.20   Cost of use
   
90.21   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.22   Annual report
   
90.23   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.24   Donations
   
90.25   Improper book removal
Swimming Pool
   
90.40   Operation and funding
   
90.41   Admission charge
   
90.42   Rentals
   
90.43   No trespassing when closed
Community Center
   
90.55   Ownership
   
90.56   Rentals
   
90.57   Rules and regulations
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, the Mayor and City Council
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements; for laying out,
improving, and beautifying such parks; for maintaining, improving, managing,
and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams; and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of
such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools, or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise, or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules, or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons, or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or ordinances; and the
police power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
LIBRARY
§ 90.15 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the City Council may levy a tax of not
more than an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property in the city annually to be levied
and collected in like manner as other taxes in the city. The levy shall be
subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount collected from such levy
shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public Library Sinking Fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.16 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The City Council of the city shall approve any personnel
administrative or compensation policy or procedure before implementation of
such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties, and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property; for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.17 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 90.18 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.19 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The president of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the president on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board. The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.20 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) above, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for non-basic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and non-print materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NON-BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.21 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.23 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the Library Fund. Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.24 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.25 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the Lyons Municipal Pool. The City Council, for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable
income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for the
purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The City Council shall manage
the swimming pool. The City Council shall have the power and authority to hire
and supervise the swimming pool manager and such employees as they may deem
necessary, and shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the
swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, and 17-952
§ 90.41 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the Lyons Municipal
Pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk, and
shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the Lyons Municipal Pool for
public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 90.42 RENTALS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to rent the Lyons Municipal Pool
to such organizations and other persons as it may, in its discretion, see fit.
The City Council shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and
shall require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the Lyons
Municipal Pool.
(Prior Code, § 3-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 90.43 NO TRESPASSING WHEN CLOSED.
   No person shall enter the fenced area of the Lyons Municipal Pool or the
Lyons Municipal Pool itself when the city swimming pool is closed. Anyone found
violating this section shall be deemed guilty of trespass.
(Prior Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 446, passed 6-7-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 90.55 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and manages the Community Center. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improvements
on the Community Center, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The revenue from
the said tax shall be known as the Community Center Fund and shall include all
gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-
producing personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of
endowing the Community Center. The Community Center Fund shall at all times be
in the custody of the City Treasurer. The City Council shall have the power to
hire and supervise such employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the Community Center as may be
proper for its efficient management.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 90.56 RENTALS.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Community Center, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
Community Center. The City Council shall prescribe rules and regulations for
such rentals. Rental rates may be structured for classes of persons and
organizations in a reasonable manner; provided that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons and organizations for
rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 90.57 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules,
and regulations for the protection of the Community Center and the safety of
those using the Community Center facilities. It may provide suitable penalties
for the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations. All damage suffered
by the Community Center during any rental shall be assessed against the person
or organization responsible for the rental thereof, or shall be deducted from
the damage deposit which the City Council may, in its discretion, have required
prior to the said rental. The City Council may require during any rental,
persons deputized as city police to ensure that the said rules and regulations
and the municipal code are not violated. The wages of such persons shall be set
by the City Council and shall be paid prior to the beginning of the rental
period. All rental fees, rules, and regulations shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances, Generally
   
91.01   General definition
   
91.02   Specific definition
   
91.03   Abatement procedure
   
91.04   Jurisdiction
   
91.05   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
NUISANCES, GENERALLY
§ 91.01 GENERAL DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the city;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
§ 91.02 SPECIFIC DEFINITION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any
of the following specific acts, contusions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber, scrap iron, tin, or other metal, automobiles or parts
thereof, or any other waste materials when any of said articles or materials
create a condition in which flies or rats may breed or multiply, or which may
be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in
the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards, or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of automobiles or worn-out, wrecked,
or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any
of the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or
equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which said
places are kept or maintained so as to essentially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or which are so unsightly
as to tend to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens, or
any other place, building, or enclosure in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; and
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-202) (Ord. 707, passed 10-8-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee of
real estate in the city to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Board of Health that said owner, occupant, lessee, or
mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate free of public nuisances; the
City Council shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent thereof, by publication and by registered
mail or by personal service. Such notice shall describe the condition as found
by the Board of Health, and state that said condition has been declared a
public nuisance, and that the condition must be remedied at once. A return of
service shall be required by the City Council. If the person receiving the
notice has not complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of
the Board of Health within ten days from the time when this notice is served
upon such person, the Board of Health shall notify the City Council of such
noncompliance and the City Council shall, upon receipt of such notice, cause a
hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee, or mortgagee, or agent of the real estate. Such notice of
hearing shall be by personal service or registered mail and require such party
or parties to appear before the City Council to show cause why such condition
should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. A return of service
shall be required by the City Council. Such notice shall be given not less than
five days prior to the time of hearing; provided that whenever the owner,
lessee, occupant, or mortgagee of such real estate is a non-resident or cannot
be found in the state, then the City Clerk shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city such notice of hearing for two consecutive
weeks, the last publication to be at least one week prior to the date set for
the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to notice, the
City Council shall hear all objections made by interested parties and shall
hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health. If, after consideration of all
of the evidence, the City Council shall find that the said condition is a
public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant,
lessee, or mortgagee to remedy the said public nuisance at once; provided, the
party or parties may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the City Council shall
be stayed. Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply
with the order of the City Council, the City Council shall proceed to cause the
abatement of the described public nuisance.
   (B)   In case any owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe
building or structure, or to abate a public nuisance, the city may proceed with
the work specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost
of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council, which is authorized to
and which shall levy the cost as a special assessment against the land. Such
special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in
the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 401, passed 4-2-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
§ 91.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce this
municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of
Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
subchapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the city
within two miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.05 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 411, passed 11-5-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.03   Fire limits defined
   
92.04   Fire limits building permit
   
92.05   Fire limits materials
   
92.06   Permitted repairs
   
92.07   Ironclads prohibited
   
92.08   Removal required
   
92.09   Fire prohibited
   
92.10   Fires regulated
   
92.11   Open burning ban; waiver
   
92.12   Poisonous and flammable liquids and gases
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The State Fire Code, 2012 Edition, and all subsequent amendments is hereby
adopted by reference. This Code shall have the same force and effect as if set
out verbatim herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 81-502
§ 92.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 92.03 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits: the incorporated city limits according to the duly recorded plat
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 92.04 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the City Council. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such application
shall be furnished by the City Clerk and shall require such information as the
City Council deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a building
permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.05 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
such noncombustible material as will satisfy the City Council that the said
structure will be reasonably fire proof.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.06 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
said person shall first submit an application to make such repairs,
alterations, or to add to any building and shall state on the application that
the material used will be noncombustible and approved by the City Council.
Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not require a
permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.07 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited;
provided, ironclad buildings with floor area of 64 square feet or less may be
permitted if built at the rear of the lot, and if a building permit is first
granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.08 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
noncombustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.09 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.10 FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires in the city
except those fires which are built and maintained at the times and in the
manner prescribed by the city’s Rural Fire District.
   (B)   The City Council shall promulgate rules and regulations for the time,
place and manner of the starting, maintaining and extinguishing of all fires
within the city limits. A copy of said rules and regulations shall be kept at
the City Clerk’s office and shall be made available to the public during office
hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 526, passed 10-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, and 81-520.01
§ 92.11 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The city’s Rural Fire District or its designee may waive an open
burning ban under division (A) above for an area under its jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the city’s Rural Fire District or its
designee shall be in writing, signed by the city’s Rural Fire District or its
designee, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The city’s Rural Fire District or its designee may waive the open
burning ban in its district when conditions are acceptable to the city’s Rural
Fire District or its designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the
open burning ban has been waived shall notify the city’s Rural Fire District of
his or her intention to burn.
    (D)   The city’s Rural Fire District may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The city’s Rural Fire District may charge a fee, not to exceed an
amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule for each such permit issued. No
such fee shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which
such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the
course of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 548, passed 9-2-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.12 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the city for
any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied
petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for the storage
of such gases, must first get permission from the City Council. The City
Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage, and the amount
of gas stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall prescribe such
rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they may deem necessary.
Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of storage
facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the effective
date of this section; provided, any such present use that is discontinued for a
period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit. Permit requirements
shall also not apply to the storage of a maximum of five gallons of kerosene or
a maximum of two gallons of gasoline when stored in residential buildings. Any
flammable gas or liquid in excess of these amounts shall be stored only after
permission has been granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Running at large; tethering
   
93.02   Enclosures
   
93.03   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
   
93.04   Pitting
   
93.05   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
Dogs
   
93.20   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
93.21   Collar or harness required
   
93.22   Removal of collar, harness, or tags
   
93.23   Liability of owner
   
93.24   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.25   Running at large
   
93.26   Impounding
   
93.27   Capture impossible
   
93.28   Vicious dogs
   
93.29   Rabies suspected
   
93.30   Pit bulls; prohibition and regulation
Cats
   
93.45   Intent
   
93.46   Definitions
   
93.47   Sterilization
   
93.48   Return of cats spayed and neutered through the TNR process
   
93.49   Interfering with the TNR process
   
93.50   Licensing
   
93.51   Killing and poisoning
   
93.52   Bites
   
93.53   Nuisance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose, or other animal except a cat to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the City Council.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the city that is prohibited by the City
Council.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.02 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.03 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the city or
any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb.
RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation.  
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
§ 93.04 PITTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCK-FIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOG FIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-209)
   (B)   Prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be
employed at dog fighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal
against another. Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission
of another person to a place kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person
knowingly own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for the purpose of animal
pitting. Nor shall any person knowingly permit any act as described in this
section to occur on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-210)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dog fighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting,
or the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-211)
(Ord. 463, passed 2-5-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004 and 28-1005
§ 93.056 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
DOGS
§ 93.20 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the
City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council, plus the fee of an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule
required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog
to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed
female dog if the Council has established different license taxes for such
dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS
    17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 93.21 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.22 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS, OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag, or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602, and 54-606
§ 93.24 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers, or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.25 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the city. RUNNING AT LARGE
shall mean any dog found off the premises of the owner, and not under control
of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope,
cage, or other suitable means of physical restraint.
   (B)   Whenever any dog is seen and identified as running at large, and when
said dog cannot be caught, the owner of any such dog shall be fined in
accordance with the city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to capture, secure, and remove in a
humane manner to the city’s animal shelter any dog violating any of the
provisions of this chapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane
manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water
each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
City Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of such
impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set
by resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk.
The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog is not
claimed at the end of required waiting period after public notice has been
given, the city police may dispose of the dog in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the
judgment of the city police, a suitable home can be found for any such dog
within the city, the said dog shall be turned over to that person and the new
owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and
vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter. The city shall acquire legal
title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer
than the required waiting period after giving notice. All dogs shall be
destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the
Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
§ 93.27 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The city police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious
tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which makes capture impossible because
of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.28 VICIOUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog being securely held by a chain not
over six feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held,
confined, or allowed to run at large, the city police shall have the authority
to put the dog to death.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.29 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days. If
upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies at
the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 93.30 PIT BULLS; PROHIBITION AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over,
maintains, harbors, transports, or sells a pit bull dog.
      PIT BULL DOG. Includes:
         (a)   The bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (b)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (c)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dogs;
         (d)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs;
         (e)   Any dog which has the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breeds of bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier, or any other breed
commonly known as pit bulls, pit bull dogs, or pit bull terriers, or a
combination of any of these breeds.
   (B)   Pit bull ownership prohibited. Subject to the following provisions
pertaining to present ownership rights, it is hereby determined to be a
nuisance and unlawful for any person to acquire by any means and thereafter
own, keep, harbor, or in any way possess a pit bull dog within the jurisdiction
of the city.
   (C)   Restrictions on current ownership or possession of pit bull dogs. Any
person who shall have owned, kept, harbored, or in any way possessed a pit bull
dog within the jurisdiction of the city prior to November 1, 2008, shall be
required to properly register the said pit bull dog with the city, and such
person shall be subject to and abide by the requirements of this section while
such pit bull dog remains within the jurisdiction of the city. Any such owner,
keeper, harborer, or possessor of a pit bull dog within the city shall comply
with the following standards and requirements.
      (1)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a registered pit bull dog
to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than six feet in length. No person shall permit a pit bull dog
to be kept on a chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen
unless a person is in physical control of the said chain, rope or leash. Such
dog shall not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings,
and the like. All pit bull dogs on a tether outside the animal’s kennel must be
muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons
or other animals.
      (2)   Confinement.
         (a)   Every registered pit bull dog shall be securely confined indoors
or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as provided herein. Such pen, kennel, or structure must have:
            1.   Secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides; and
            2.   A secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen, or
the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet.
         (b)   Each structure used to confine a registered pit bull dog must be
locked with a key or combination lock when such animal is inside. All
structures that are erected to house pit bull dogs must comply with all zoning
and building regulations of the city. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No pit bull dog may be kept on a porch, patio,
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building of its own volition. In addition, no animal may be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   (D)   Signs. All owners of registered pit bull dogs within the city shall
display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the
public using the words “Beware of Dog - Pit Bull.” In addition, a similar sign
shall be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
   (E)   Insurance. All owners of registered pit bull dogs shall provide proof
to the city of possession of liability insurance in a single-incident amount of
$500,000 for bodily injury or death of any person which may result from the
ownership of such animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that no
cancellation of the written policy may be made unless ten days’ written notice
is first given to the city.
   (F)   Identification photograph. Every owner of a registered pit bull dog
shall provide the city two color photographs of the registered animal in two
different poses, showing its color and approximate size.
   (G)   Reporting and disposal requirements. Every owner of a registered pit
bull dog shall, within ten days of any of the following incidents, report in
writing to the city as follows:
      (1)   Removal of dog from the city;
      (2)   Death of said dog;
      (3)   Birth of offspring, and thereafter the offspring shall be disposed
of or removed from the jurisdiction of the city within 45 days of their birth;
and
      (4)   New address if owner moves with the city.
   (H)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell,
barter, or in any other way dispose of a pit bull dog registered with the city
to any other person, provided that the owner of the registered pit bull dog may
sell or otherwise dispose of it or its offspring to persons who do not reside
within the city and do not permit such pit bull dog or offspring to be kept
within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 679, passed 9-1-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
CATS
§ 93.45 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to decrease community cat populations by
humanely controlling reproduction and without removing cats from city limits in
accordance with the Trap, Neuter, Return (TNR) population control method for
the betterment of the community.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The City Police Department, or a contracted agent.
   CAT HOARDING. The accumulation of cats that has overwhelmed a person’s
ability to provide minimum standards of care. Standards of care include
nutrition, sanitation, shelter, veterinary care, and socialization causing
disease, starvation, or death of cats confined and residing within a property
residence or structure.
   CAT OWNER. Any person who confines a cat(s) inside a residence or property
structure for any length of time and is deemed personal property.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any cat that is not confined inside a residence or property
structure for any length of time.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. Any person who provides food, water, and shelter to
free roaming cats, and does not confine cats inside a residence or property
structure for any length of time.
   EAR TIPPING. The removal of a one-fourth-inch tip from one ear of a
community cat, performed while the cat is under anesthesia, to identify a
community cat as being sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
   FREE ROAMING CAT. Any cat that can roam freely outside for any length of
time including owned and community cats.
   TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (TNR). The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, ear tipping, and returning a community cat to the
location trapped. Permission to trap on privately owned property shall first be
obtained.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.47 STERILIZATION.
   (A)   Spay and neuter of free roaming cats. All free roaming cats shall be
surgically spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian and rabies vaccinated
residing within city limits voluntarily by the owner, caregiver, or through the
TNR process.
   (B)   Spay and neuter of owned cats not free roaming. All owned cats that
are not free roaming shall be spayed and neutered by four months of age.
Exemptions include the procedure would endanger the health of the cat, the
owner is a state licensed breeder, cats given temporary residence in a foster
situation, the cat is used in show and performance competitions, a veterinarian
does not recommend spay and neuter surgery until six months of age, or the
combination of cats within a residence or property structure where the owner
does not allow cats to reproduce or the combination of unaltered cats would not
lead to reproduction. A veterinarian statement shall be required for all
exemptions where applicable.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.48 RETURN OF CATS SPAYED AND NEUTERED THROUGH THE TNR PROCESS.
   All cats shall be returned to the area they were captured, except for cats
needing additional medical attention for illness or injury or a cat appears to
be owned and lost and after a five-day holding period in which the cat is not
claimed by an owner. In addition, a community cat caregiver can request cats
they feed be relocated for the health and safety of the cats. When cats are
returned to their owners, the owners are required to show proof of ownership in
the form of a licensing certificate, veterinary records, or photographs and the
cats must be current on rabies vaccination and licensed with the city. The
owner pays all applicable boarding, veterinary, and licensing fees.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.49 INTERFERING WITH THE TNR PROCESS.
   Any person found to be removing free-roaming cats from city limits for the
sole purpose of dumping said cats in the country, concealing unaltered cats for
the purpose of reproduction, releasing cats from traps, tampering with,
stealing, damaging, or destroying TNR equipment. A $25 fine will be imposed
plus equipment replacement cost if applicable for each offense.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.50 LICENSING.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall own a cat in this subchapter, over the
age of six months within the city shall, within 30 days after acquisition of
the said cat, shall acquire a license for each cat annually by or before May 1
of each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 1; provided,
the owner of any cat brought into or harbored within the corporate limits after
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the cat tax levied herein
and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the payment of a license fee of
an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule for each cat. Said license
shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale,
or other disposition of the licensed cat. The owner shall state at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or
her name and address and the name, breed, color, sex, and sterilization status
of each cat owned. A certificate indicating the cat has been spayed or neutered
and received a rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the
license, shall be presented when the license is by him or her applied for and
no license will be issued until the certificate is shown. Upon payment of the
license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the owner of a cat a license
certificate and metallic tag for each cat so licensed. The metallic cat tags do
not need to be attached to the collar and worn by said cat. The cat owner shall
make that decision for their pet. All owned cats so licensed shall entitle the
owner to keep or harbor the said cat until April 30 following such licensing.
If a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate
or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the City Clerk
shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the
license tax has been paid. All license fees and collections shall be
immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
   (B)   Wrongful licensing. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to
permit or allow such a cat to wear any license, metallic tag, or other city
identification than that issued by the City Clerk for cats.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.51 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a cat, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy, or to place any poison, or
poisoned food where the same is accessible to a cat.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.52 BITES.
   Any owned cat not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin,
shall be confined for rabies observation not less than ten days by the owner.
If the owner cannot confine the cat for ten days, the cat will be impounded and
held for observation by animal control. If upon examination by a veterinarian,
the cat has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such confinement, it may
be released to the owner after rabies vaccination, proper licensing, and spay
or neuter in accordance with this subchapter, is shown to be completed. The
owner will be required to pay all fees associated with confinement,
vaccination, and any other needed veterinary care during the ten-day
confinement period. Community cats that have bitten will be impounded and
confined for rabies observation in the same manner and returned to its colony.
Caregivers will not be held responsible for associated fees.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.53 NUISANCE.
   A cat shall be deemed a nuisance according to §§
91.01 through
91.05 when not spayed or neutered according to this subchapter and shall be
brought into compliance to remove a nuisance determination.
(Ord. 754, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons, cruelly
mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 464, passed 2-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Species to be planted
   
94.03   Spacing and distance requirements
   
94.04   Care and removal
   
94.05   Topping
   
94.06   Obstructions; pruning, removal
   
94.07   Dead or diseased trees
   
94.08   Work ordered or done by city
   
94.09   Abuse or mutilation
   
94.10   Protection
   
94.11   Stump removal
   
94.12   Interference with City Tree Board
   
94.13   License and bond
   
94.14   Dutch elm disease
   
94.15   Enforcement official; rights; duties
   
94.16   Notice; removal; burning
   
94.17   On private lands
   
94.18   On public lands
   
94.19   Trimming and removing trees; electric lines
Tree Board
   
94.30   Creation and establishment
   
94.31   Term of office
   
94.32   Compensation
   
94.33   Duties and responsibilities
   
94.34   Operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature attain heights greater than 45 feet
at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from 25
feet to 45 feet at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city or to which the public has free access.
   SMALL TREES. Trees which, by their nature, normally attain heights greater
than 25 feet at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 94.02 SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following species of trees listed by common name, constitute the
official street tree species for the city. No species other than these included
in this list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the
City Council.
 
Small Trees         Medium Trees      Large Trees
                                      American Pagodatree
                                      Bur Oak
Amur Maple                            Coffeetree
Eastern Crabapple   Aspen             Debra Maple
Hawthorns           Birch             Hackberry
Lilac Japanese Tree Ginkgo            Honeylocust
Pear                Littleleaf Linden Linden
Plum                Sweetgum          Northern Red
Redbud                               Red Maple
Service Berry                         Sugar Maple
                                      Swamp White Oak
                                      Sycamore
 
   (B)   The City Council shall review and approve all tree planting plans for
park trees, as defined in §
94.01.
(Prior Code, § 8-407)
§ 94.03 SPACING AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees and park trees will be in
accordance with the three species size classes listed in §§
94.01 and
94.02, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following, except
in special plantings approved by the City Council:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-408)
   (B)   Distance from curb and sidewalk.
      (1)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in §§
94.01 and
94.02, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following:
         (a)   Small trees: two feet;
         (b)   Medium trees: three feet; and
         (c)   Large trees: four feet.
      (2)   Street trees shall be centered between the curb and sidewalk or
aligned with existing street trees; except in special situations approved by
the City Council. In areas with no curbs or sidewalks, or less than four feet
between the curb and sidewalk, no street trees shall be planted without written
permission from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-409)
   (C)   Distance from street intersections, driveways and alleys. No street
tree or park tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street intersection
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines or within
15 feet of any driveway or alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-410)
   (D)   Distance from utility lines. No street trees or park trees other than
those species listed as small trees in §
94.02, or species specifically approved by the City Council, may be planted
under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or
within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line or other utility line, wire, or main. No street tree shall be
planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 8-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
street trees or park trees within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The City Council may remove or cause or order to be removed any street
tree or park tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by
reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, or other public improvements, or is infected with any injurious
fungus, insect, or other pest.
   (C)   No person or property owner shall remove any live street tree or park
tree for any reason without written permission of the City Council. Utility
personnel may remove trees or parts thereof which are injurious to their
utility lines at their expense upon obtaining permission for such removal or
trimming from the City Council. This section does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by abutting property owners providing that the selection and
location of said trees is in accordance with §
94.03.
(Prior Code, § 8-412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at
the determination of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-413) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 OBSTRUCTIONS; PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   (A)   All trees and shrubs within the city shall be pruned or removed when
such trees or shrubs obstruct the light from any street lamp, obstruct the
visibility of any traffic control device or sign, obstruct the passage of
pedestrians on sidewalks, or obstruct the view of any street or alley
intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be
12 feet over all streets and eight feet over sidewalks.
   (B)   All shrubs and hedges defined as street trees in this chapter shall be
kept trimmed by the abutting property owner at least two feet back from all
curbs, sidewalks, driveways, or alleys; and the same shall at all times be kept
trimmed to a height not greater than 30 inches above the top of the curb unless
the City Council, for other than corner lots, determines that a greater height
would not constitute a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the power and authority to prune or
remove, or order to prune or remove, any such trees or shrubs on private
property. The City Council shall notify in writing the owners of such trees or
shrubs. Pruning or removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of notification. In the event of a failure of
owners to comply with said notice, the city shall have the authority to prune
or remove said trees or shrubs and charge the cost of said pruning or removal
on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-414)
§ 94.07 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of
the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have the work done to abate and remove the dead
or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does
not request a hearing with the city within five days after receipt of such
notice or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
city may have such work done. The city may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted as a special assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. The provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such
nuisances. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
city police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect
the trees thereon.
§ 94.08 WORK ORDERED OR DONE BY CITY.
   Written permission shall not be required for any tree, shrub, or hedge
planting, pruning, spraying, or removing ordered or done by the city, however,
all such work shall be done in conformance with the requirements of §§
94.02 through
94.07.
(Prior Code, § 8-416)
§ 94.09 ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   Unless specifically authorized by the City Council, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any street tree or park
tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to
such trees; allow any gaseous liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to
such trees to come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn
when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of such trees. The
preceding restrictions do not apply to proper planting, staking, and guying
practices.
(Prior Code, § 8-417)
§ 94.10 PROTECTION.
   (A)   All street trees or park trees near any excavation or construction of
any building, structure, or street work, shall be guarded with a substantial
fence, frame, or box not less than four feet high and eight feet square and all
construction materials, soil, or other debris shall be kept outside the
barrier.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within ten feet of any street or park tree without first obtaining
written permission from the City Council.
   (C)   No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public
property of the city, any stone, brick, sand, soil, concrete, or other material
which may impede the free passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots of
any street tree or park tree, except by written permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-418) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.11 STUMP REMOVAL.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-419)
§ 94.12 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
City Council, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-420) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.13 LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be an amount as set forth in the city’s fee schedule annually in advance;
provided, however, that no license shall be required of any public service
company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of his or her public
service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall
first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts
of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 for property damage indemnifying the
city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such
endeavors as herein described.
(Prior Code, § 8-421) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.14 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   (A)   Trees of all species and varieties of elm, zelkova, and planera
infected with the fungus Ceratostomella Ulmi, as determined by laboratory
analysis, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be removed and
burned.
   (B)   Trees or parts thereof, of elm, zelkova, or planera in a dead or dying
condition that may serve as breeding places for the European Elm Bark Beetle,
Scolytus, Multistriatus, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and shall
be removed and burned.
(Prior Code, § 8-422)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 94.15 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; RIGHTS; DUTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent is charged with enforcement of §§
94.14 and
94.16 through
94.18, and to that end, may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours
for purposes of inspecting trees thereon, and may remove such specimens as are
required for purposes of analysis to determine whether or not the same are
infected. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the Utility
Superintendent from entering on private property for purposes of carrying out
his or her duties hereunder, or to interfere with such Utilities Superintendent
in the lawful performance of his or her duties under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 NOTICE; REMOVAL; BURNING.
   (A)   Burning. If trees on private property are found to be infected or in a
dead or dying condition, the Utilities Superintendent shall give to the owner
of the premises where the same are situated, written notice of the existence of
such disease or of the dead or dying condition of such trees or parts thereof;
and require the removal and burning of the same under the direction and
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent. Such notice shall also notify the
owner of the premises that if such tree is not removed and burned after five
days notice by publication or personal service, the city will proceed with the
removal and burning of the same, and assess the cost thereof against the
property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-424)
   (B)   Service of notice. Service of notice shall be by personal service
where the owner of said premises is a resident of the city. When the owner is a
nonresident, said notice shall be served by registered mail addressed to such
owner at his or her last known address, as shown on the records in the office
of the County Assessor, and by publication at least one time in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-425)
§ 94.17 ON PRIVATE LANDS.
   After due notice has been served upon the owner of the said premises, it
shall thereupon become his or her duty to cause such tree to be removed and
burned under the direction and supervision of the Utilities Superintendent. In
lieu thereof, the person charged with such removal and burning may enter into
an agreement with the city that such work be accomplished by the city at his or
her expense; and the expense and any interest shall be, and are hereby declared
to be, a lien upon such property whereon such tree was situated from the time
the same becomes due until paid. The agreement shall be in such form as the
City Attorney may prescribe, to be filed in the office of the County Clerk. If
the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to remove or burn such tree, the
Utilities Superintendent may, five days after notice is served, enter upon such
private property and proceed with the removal and burning of the same; and the
cost thereof shall be assessed against the real estate in the manner
hereinafter provided. The Utilities Superintendent shall, not later than
September 15 of each year, report such costs to the City Council, whereupon the
City Council shall, at a regular meeting by resolution, assess such cost,
together with any assessment expenses against such real estate: provided that
notice of the time of such meeting of the City Council shall be given in the
manner provided by law. When such assessment has been made, it shall be
certified by the Clerk and delivered to the County Treasurer and shall be
collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of general real
estate taxes. Such assessment shall be a lien upon such real estate from the
date of such assessment and shall become delinquent in the same manner as
general real estate taxes under the statutes of the state relating thereto, and
shall draw interest after delinquency at the rate of 14% per annum from said
date until paid. It shall be the duty of the County Treasurer to collect said
tax in the same manner and at the same time as general taxes, and the items of
said tax shall be receipted for on the same receipt blanks as general real
estate taxes.
(Prior Code, § 8-426)
§ 94.18 ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Infected trees, or trees or parts thereof in a dead or dying condition on
public lands, shall be removed and burned by the Utilities Superintendent
within five days of his or her discovery that such condition exists, and the
cost thereof shall be borne by the city without being assessed to the abutting
property owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-427)
§ 94.19 TRIMMING AND REMOVING TREES; ELECTRIC LINES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the city’s electrical system shall, before
doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities
Superintendent and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or
she may prescribe for doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person
felling or removing such trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines
without first giving proper notice and receiving permission in writing to do
so. Any person felling or removing trees or branches which damage any property
of the city, including the electrical lines, will be responsible for said
damages.
   (B)   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
city’s electrical system, the City Board shall have the power to order the
cutting and removal of any overhanging branches or limbs of trees so that the
lines will be free and safe with the following exceptions.
      (1)   Trees interfering with service wires (wires from city poles to the
customer’s house or building) will not be trimmed or removed. Arrangements can
be made to have the service wire temporarily removed to permit the property
owner or contractor to trim or remove the tree. If any person wants their
electric service temporarily disconnected to trim or remove a tree, the
Utilities Superintendent must be contacted in advance to ensure the
availability of city crew at the desired time. The service is not available on
Sundays or holidays, and may be delayed due to emergency work.
      (2)   Trees near street light and yard light wires will not be trimmed by
the city under normal circumstances. The city will not trim trees near street
lights or yard lights to improve illumination.
   (C)   If the city requests that a tree be trimmed or removed, all wood cut
from the tree will be removed from the property by the city. The city will not
remove stumps. The property owner may keep any portion of the wood desired;
however, city crews will not cut wood to uniform length or stack the wood.
   (D)   Wood from fallen trees or wood that has fallen from standing trees is
also the responsibility of the property owner. The city will remove broken
branches still attached to the tree that are interfering with the wires. The
city will not haul away the branches. The wood will be cut only as required to
make repairs to the power lines.
   (E)   Wood that is not wanted by property owners will be made available to
the public on the following terms.
      (1)   Persons who want wood on private property must make arrangements
with the property owner.
      (2)   Tree crews cannot cut wood to uniform size or any smaller than
necessary for normal handling.
      (3)   Tree crews cannot load wood into private vehicles or trailers.
      (4)   Crews will not stack or separate wood.
      (5)   Wood and wood chips may be dumped on private or public property
with approval of the property owner, only when a savings in crew man hours and
equipment hours is evident.
   (F)   The city will assist property owners and/or their commercial
contractors, at their request, with the trimming and removal of trees that are
near city electric wires. When a tree trimming request is received, a city
representative will make an inspection and explain to the property owner or
contractor what the city can do to assist them. City assistance will include:
      (1)   The temporary rerouting, de-energizing, or removing of electric
wires that may be hazardous to workers or that may be damaged by falling tree
wood. The city will coordinate with the property owner or contractor the time
that the work can be done; and/or
      (2)   Trimming the tree so that it can be safely removed or trimmed by
the property owner or contractor without falling onto the electric wires. All
wood cut from the tree will be left on the property owner’s premises. The city
is not responsible for cutting wood to size or piling brush. The customer or
contractor will be responsible for removing brush that is blocking sidewalks
and driveways.
(Prior Code, § 8-428) Penalty, see §
10.99
TREE BOARD
§ 94.30 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the city,
which shall consist of four members, citizens, and residents of this city who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)
§ 94.31 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the four persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be one year.
In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a
successor shall be appointed for a new one-year term.
(Prior Code, § 8-403)
§ 94.32 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 94.33 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer written
plans (annual and long range) for the care, replacement, maintenance, and
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council
and upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
comprehensive city tree plan for the city.
   (B)   The Tree Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter or
question relating to trees.
(Prior Code, § 8-405)
§ 94.34 OPERATION.
   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 8-406)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other improvements
   
95.03   Maintenance and control
   
95.04   Regulation of obstructions
   
95.05   Regulation of snow, ice, and other encroachments
   
95.06   Overhanging branches
   
95.07   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
95.08   Heavy equipment
   
95.09   Weeds
   
95.10   Special improvement district
   
95.11   Excavation
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
95.25   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
95.26   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
   
95.27   Acquisition of real property
   
95.28   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
95.40   Requirement to keep clean
   
95.41   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
95.42   Construction and repair at city direction
   
95.43   Construction by petition
Streets and Alleys
   
95.55   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
95.56   Driveway approaches
   
95.57   Excavation
   
95.58   Mixing concrete
   
95.59   Harmful liquids
   
95.60   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
   
95.61   Construction notice
   
95.62   Construction assessment
   
95.63   Petition for improvements
   
95.64   Deferral from special assessments
   
95.65   Improvements
   
95.66   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
95.67   Closing designated public ways
   
95.68   Snow emergencies
CITY PROPERTY
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The city official with general charge, direction, and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 95.02 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or
re-lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create improvement districts, to
be consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments, and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401, and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 95.03 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 95.04 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining, and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 95.05 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE, AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud, or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys, and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
city through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 95.06 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking,
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the duty of
the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb, or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the City Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the City Council to order the Overseer
of Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The City Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the City Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
City Council for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set
on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained
by the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the city. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the city until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Overseer of Streets or of the committee of the City Council on streets and
alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the City Council in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or
damage any pavement, gutter, or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures, and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Building Inspector, or his or her duly
authorized agent, to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if weeds and worthless
vegetation that are noxious, obstruct travel on public ways, or create a fire
or health hazard, are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner
or occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of
land within the city is a non-resident of the city or cannot be found therein,
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the city to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises and
then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report
the cost thereof in writing to the City Council. The cost shall then be audited
and paid by the city, and the amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot
or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall be collected as are other
taxes of the city; or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the city
against the owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 95.10 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Assessment and creation procedure.
      (1)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a Special Improvement
District for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing an existing
street, alley, water line, or sewer line or any other such improvement.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the City Council
may levy a special assessment, to the extent of such benefits, for the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found specially benefitted thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the City Council shall
follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
   (B)   Land adjacent. Any city may include land adjacent to such city when
creating an improvement district, such as a sewer, paving, water, water
extension, or sanitary sewer extension district. The City Council may levy a
special assessment for the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
specially benefitted thereby, except as provided in §
95.64.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
(Ord. 429, passed 9-15-1987; Ord. 431, passed 9-15-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1751 and 19-2427
§ 95.11 EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Permit required for excavation. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons, corporation or corporations, partnerships or associations, or other
entities, to excavate in any manner or remove or disturb any city sidewalk,
curb, or service in any city street, alley, sidewalk, public park, or other
property of the city, including public areas which have no such sidewalks,
curbs, or other hard surface, and city easements unless such person or persons,
corporation or corporations, partnership, or association, or other business
entity shall first have obtained a permit from the city authorizing such
excavation.
   (B)   Compliance with other chapters. In no event shall any excavation be
made for sanitary sewer installation, repair or maintenance except in
compliance with Chapter 51; nor shall any excavation be made for city water
system connections, installation, repair, or maintenance except in compliance
with Chapter 52; nor shall any excavation be made for city natural gas
installation, repair, or maintenance except in compliance with Chapter 53.
   (C)   Application for permit. Anyone desiring to make application for a
permit under the provisions of this chapter shall submit a written application
to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City Clerk and shall include
written proof that all public utilities having cables, pipes, and lines within
the city, including city utilities, have been adequately informed of any
proposed excavation.
   (D)   Surety bond. No permit shall be issued for any excavation as provided
herein until there has been filed with the City Clerk a bond with sureties
acceptable to the city in the sum of $1,000, conditioned upon the full
observance of city ordinances applicable to such excavation and that said
applicant will indemnify the city for all losses and damages sustained by
reason of any negligence on the part of the permitted, his or her agents, or
employees while engaged in excavating or any costs sustained in enforcing the
terms of the bond.
   (E)   Restoration of excavated area. Whenever such excavation or removal is
completed, such person shall forthwith restore any street, alley, sidewalk,
curb, public park, or public place to the same condition in which it was prior
to the excavation.
   (F)   Protection of excavated area. No person shall excavate or leave any
such excavation without properly barricading the same and maintaining at night
warning lights thereon, upon any pile of earth, plant, stone, or building
materials placed nearby. Such person shall also indemnify the city for any and
all liability for damages arising out of such excavation removal.
   (G)   Request for location. Any person planning excavation activities of any
type not affecting public property or easements shall request pipeline location
services of the utility. The request shall be made in person at the City Office
Building, 335 Main Street, or by phone (402-687-2485). Excavation shall not
commence until verification of the presence or absence of pipelines in the work
area has been received and gas, water, or sewer facilities are marked.
   (H)   Information needed at time of application or request. A person
applying for a permit or requesting pipeline locations should be prepared to
provide the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for excavation;
      (2)   An accurate location of the proposed work site;
      (3)   The date and time planned for commencement and expected duration of
operations;
      (4)   The method of excavation, including information concerning any use
of explosives; and
      (5)   In cases not covered by the permit process, a reasonable
convenience arrangement by which the utility can notify the caller of the
presence or absence of underground facilities in the excavation area. Such
arrangement may be a phone call from the utility, an on-site meeting, a meeting
at the utility office, or a subsequent call (by the person) to the utility.
   (I)   Utility response to application or request. 
      (1)   The utility’s response to a permit application or request for
pipeline location shall include: recording pertinent information, verification
of the presence or absence of underground facilities; temporary marking of
utility lines near the work site; and notifying the applicant or caller of the
presence of utility lines and the marking system used to identify their
location(s).
      (2)   When possible, the utility shall notify the person requesting line
location within 48 hours of his or her application or request. Notice may be by
acknowledgment on the permit application, by telephone, or in person and shall
be given whether or not utility lines are in the work area. Where lines are
present, notice will also include information about the method of marking. The
utility shall determine the presence of pipelines in the work area and provide
tempo marking where necessary. Whenever possible, marking shall be completed
within 24 hours of the receipt of necessary information.
   (J)   Pipeline markers.
      (1)   Pipelines shall be marked with flags, paint or stakes using the
following color code:
         (a)   Yellow: natural gas;
         (b)   Blue: water; and
         (c)   Green: sewer.
      (2)   City Utilities is not responsible for location of other utility
facilities as part of a pipeline locating request. Temporary markings or
markers shall be made or placed as necessary to show the location of pipelines
and cables. On gas pipelines, markers shall be placed above the pipeline at not
less than 25 foot intervals (where physically possible) for a distance of 1,550
feet either side of the proposed work area. Gas pipeline markers shall indicate
the diameter of the pipeline, though excavators should not use line markers as
absolute guides for close proximity digging the power equipment.
(Prior Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 452, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 470, passed 5-7-1991)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 95.25 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 95.26 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general municipal election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a majority of the
electors voting on such question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified
signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of
the city at a general city election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-106) (Ord. 545, passed 5-6-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 and 17-953.01
§ 95.27 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (Prior Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 555, passed 11-4-1997)
§ 95.28 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of
an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the city that is not subject
to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above, or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply;
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the city’s architectural or engineering
work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
SIDEWALKS
§ 95.40 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.41 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to
the City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.42 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed.
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 95.43 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the City Council to make the same, the City Council
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the City Council may
order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this chapter upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the city an agreement to the
effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee and
all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual lien
upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to be
constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the city the right to
assess and levy the costs of such construction against the freeholder’s real
estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay such costs with
interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied, allocated,
financed, and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the property
owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the city
shall, before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy
of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 95.55 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the city and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 95.56 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.57 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.58 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.59 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.60 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 95.61 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   (A)   The Chief Street Official shall notify the owners in fee simple of
real estate abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put
under contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction.
   (B)   Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at least
20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party undertaking
such construction and said notice shall state at what date connections must be
made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and underground
connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the street under
construction. After expiration of such time, permits for excavation will not be
issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the completion of the
pavement in said street or alley and the formal final acceptance thereof by the
proper officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 95.62 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be authorized
by law, the City Council shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue, alley, or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed,
or otherwise improved or repaired. The City Council sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the City
Council at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the
benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and
the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to
be held shall be published in some legal newspaper, published or of general
circulation in the city, at least four weeks before the same shall be held. In
lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon the
persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such assessments shall
be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with the cost of notice
shall be levied and collected as a special tax, in addition to the taxes for
general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in like
manner as other city taxes, and shall be certified to the County Clerk by the
City Clerk forthwith after the date of levy for collection by the County
Treasurer unless otherwise specified. After it shall become delinquent, said
assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per annum. In the
event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property
lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 95.63 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk, petitioning
therefore the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling, or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefore, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement.
The City Council shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the City Council should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 95.64 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in §
95.10(B), which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall mean:
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land as described in Neb. RS 77-1359,
so that incidental use of the land for nonagricultural or nonhorticultural
purposes shall not disqualify the land; and
      (2)   AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE. Designation of any land predominantly for
agricultural or horticultural use by any political subdivision pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-925 to 19-933, Chapter 14, Article 4, Chapter 15, Article 9, Chapter 16,
Article 9, Chapter 17, Article 10, or Chapter 23, Article 1. The primary
objective of the agricultural use zoning shall be to preserve and protect
agricultural activities and the potential for the agricultural, horticultural,
or open use of land. Uses to be allowed on such lands include primarily
agricultural-related or horticultural-related uses, and nonagricultural or
nonhorticultural industrial, commercial, or residential uses allowed on such
lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict with or detract from
this objective.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by
this section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the
governing body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in §
95.10(A). Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the governing body.
      (2)   The governing body shall approve the application of any owner of
record title upon determination that the property:
         (a)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
         (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 432, passed 9-15-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 95.65 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvement of streets on corporate limits. The Mayor and Council
shall have the power to improve any street or part thereof which divides the
city corporate area and the area adjoining the city. When creating an
improvement district including land adjacent to the city, the City Council
shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
   (B)   Improvement districts; objections. Whenever the City Council deems it
necessary to make any improvements allowed by statute which are to be funded by
a levy of special assessment on the property especially benefitted, the City
Council shall, by ordinance, create a paving, graveling, or other improvement
district and, after the passage, approval, and publication or posting of such
ordinance, shall publish notice of the creation of any such district for six
days in a legal newspaper of the city, if a daily newspaper, or for two
consecutive weeks if it is a weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, the publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If the owners of the record title representing more
than 50% of the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street
or alley to be improved file with the City Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice, written objections to the creation of such
district, such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but
such ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the
district in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the City Council
shall immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made,
shall contract for the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the
lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley
especially benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay
the cost of such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
   (C)   Improvement of main thoroughfares. The Mayor and City Council shall
have the power by a three-fourths’ vote of the City Council, to create by
ordinance a paving, graveling or other improvement district, and to order such
work done upon any federal or state highway in the city, or upon a street or
route designated by the Mayor and City Council as a main thoroughfare that
connects on both ends, to either a federal or state highway or a county road.
The City Council shall contract therefore and shall have the power to assess,
to the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the
properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
(Ord. 544, passed 5-6-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509, 17-511, and 17-512
 § 95.66 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or, if
a special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time, and
place of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three, five, or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
§ 95.67 CLOSING DESIGNATED PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   First Street north of Main Street shall be closed to all public
traffic.
   (B)   The alleyway located immediately north and parallel to Main Street,
shall be closed to public traffic between First Street and Second Street, with
ingress and egress from Second Street allowed only to adjoining property
owners, to and from their property.
(Prior Code, § 8-317) (Ord. 655, passed - -)
§ 95.68 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever, by reason of sleet, freezing rain, or a heavy snowfall, a
serious public hazard impairing transportation and the movement of fire,
medical and police protection services exists, a snow emergency may be declared
and such snow emergency shall continue until such time as snow removal,
spreading of sand, or salting operations have been declared completed.
   (B)   The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee shall have the authority to declare
a snow emergency when the aforesaid conditions exist, and also to declare the
completion of snow emergency operations.
   (C)   Whenever an emergency exists, the Mayor or the Mayor’s designee shall
cause announcement thereof to be made by not less than two or more radio or
television stations or other methods of communication, whose normal operating
range covers the city in an expeditious manner, within one hour thereafter.
    (D)   When a snow emergency is in effect, no one shall park a motor vehicle
on the streets within the city.
   (E)   When a snow emergency is in effect, any vehicle parked on the streets
in the city shall be ordered removed as hereinafter provided. All vehicles are
to remain off of said streets until the snow emergency operations have been
completed.
   (F)   Vehicles parked in violation of this section are a nuisance and a
danger and interfere with snow emergency operations and the Chief of Police
shall have the authority to order the removal of any vehicle parked in
violation of this section. The Chief of Police may issue such order personally
or through one of the regular police officers. The costs of towing and storage
of such vehicle shall be paid by the registered owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-318) (Ord. 684, passed 3-4-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Collection dates
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
   
110.05   Fire insurance companies
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied as set
forth in the city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
§ 110.05 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the City Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Applications; city examination
   
111.17   Licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
111.18   Application; notice; procedure
   
111.19   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.20   Licensee requirements
   
111.21   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.22   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.23   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Catering licenses
   
111.25   Display of license
   
111.26   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.27   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
111.28   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Sanitary conditions
   
111.41   Hours of sale
   
111.42   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.43   Original package
   
111.44   Hiring minors
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases used in this
chapter shall have the meaning as defined in the State Liquor Control Act, and
in addition, the following definition shall apply.
STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club
or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a license issued
for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a
retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages
or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the city unless said person
shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the State Liquor
Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 111.16 APPLICATIONS; CITY EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a new license to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail or a craft brewery license shall file an application with the Liquor
Control Commission. The Liquor Control Commission shall then notify by
registered or certified mail the City Clerk. The Liquor Control Commission
shall set for hearing before it any application for a retail license relative
to which it has received, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the
application by the city, a recommendation of denial from the city.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice and copy of the application, the City
Council shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held, and at
which the City Council may receive evidence, either orally or by affidavit,
from the applicant or any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance
of the license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city one time not less
than seven nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. The notice
shall include but not be limited to a statement that all persons desiring to
give evidence before the local City Council in support of or protest against
the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the hearing. The hearing
shall be held not more than 21 days after the receipt of this notice from the
Liquor Control Commission.
   (C)   In determining what recommendation to make to the Liquor Control
Commission, the City Council shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly provide
the service proposed within the city;
      (2)   Whether the applicant can conform to all provisions, requirements,
rules, and regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensed business can conform to all provisions, requirements, rules,
and regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act; and
      (4)   Whether the issuance of the license is or will be required by the
present or future public convenience and necessity.
   (D)   After the hearing, the City Council shall cause to be spread at large,
in the minute record of its proceedings, a resolution recommending either
issuance or refusal of such license. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail to the
Liquor Control Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the
resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except that
failure to comply herewith shall not render void any license issued by the
Liquor Control Commission. In the event the Liquor Control Commission refuses
to issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice as herein required
shall be paid by the Liquor Control Commission from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-131 through 53-134) (Prior Code, § 10-105)
§ 111.17 LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consider the following licensing standards and
criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from the City Council to the State
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
       (4)   Zoning restrictions and the city’s zoning and land-use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and any other evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth, both citywide and
within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license, and the
distance and times of travel to such licenses;
      (9)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located, as well as its projected growth;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
in conjunction with the proposed license is, and will be, consistent with the
public interest;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168.06 of the State Liquor Control Act;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic beverages, which must be
displayed, kept, and sold from an area which is secured to the greatest extent
possible;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly
provide the service proposed in conformance with all provisions, requirements,
needs and regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements, rules, and
regulations provided for in the State Liquor Control Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicants established by
information contained in the public records of the State Liquor Control
Commission and investigations conducted by the Police Department;
      (16)   Past evidences of discrimination involving the applicant(s) as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
city, or any other governmental board or agency of the city, or any other
governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Past compliance with state laws and liquor regulations and city
ordinances and regulations;
      (18)   If the application is for an on-sale license, whether it is
adjunct to a legitimate food service operation as evidenced by percent of gross
income allocated to food and liquor, and the type and extent of kitchen
facilities;
      (19)   Whether the applicant or its representatives has suppressed any
fact or provided any nonfactual information to the local City Council or its
employees in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The
applicant is required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the city;
       (20)   Whether the application will provide an improvement to the
neighborhood, a betterment to the city, or a true increase in service to the
public at large;
      (21)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, and
public institutions;
      (22)   Whether the type of entertainment to be offered, if any, will be
appropriate and nondisruptive to the neighborhood where the premises are
located and to the community at large;
      (23)   Whether the application is for a business, and the sole purpose
for which is the sale or dispensing of liquor, or when the sale or dispensing
of liquor is a substantial integral part of the business, and not just
incidental thereto;
      (24)   Applications for Class “B,” “C,” and “D” licenses (as defined by
Neb. RS 53- 124) must be for premises which are separate and distinct from any
other business activity. Premises shall be deemed separate and distinct only
when located in a building which is not adjacent to any other building, or when
located within the same building, they shall be so separate by walls (floor to
ceiling), that access cannot be had directly from the area of alcoholic liquor
sales to any other business activity by means of doors or other openings;
provided, nothing herein shall prevent the construction or maintenance of doors
that are used by employees; further, any nonconforming premises in existence on
the effective date of this chapter may be continued for the life of the
license. Such nonconforming premises may not be enlarged, extended, or restored
after damage during interim. For the purposes of this section, OTHER BUSINESS
ACTIVITY shall mean the sale or display of any food, produce, mercantile
product, item, or service other than keeping or selling of alcoholic liquors at
retail for consumption off the premises and the sale or display of ice, drink
mix, tobacco, cups, or carbonated beverages;
      (25)   Whether or not applicant has ever forfeited bond to appear in
court to answer charges of having committed a felony, or charges of having
violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good morals and
decency, or has been convicted of violating of forfeiting bond to appear in
court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating to
alcoholic liquors;
      (26)   The City Council may fix certain requirements and prescribe
certain conditions upon a license when it is granted or permitted to continue
in full force and effect whether such requirements or conditions are imposed at
a formal hearing, by a written notice, or in a written stipulation, and such
requirements or conditions shall be deemed to be a part of the license as
though fully endorsed therein; and any violation or breach of any requirement
or condition is prohibited; and
      (27)   Other information and data that may reasonably be considered
pertinent to the issuance of the license.
   (B)   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term APPLICANTS as used herein is synonymous with “license.”
(Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 415, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-132 and 53-134
§ 111.18 APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time, and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the City Council that prejudice would result
therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City Attorney. The
intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each witness
may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question and answer. The
City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be recorded by the
Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (2)   The City Council and its representatives shall not be bound by the
strict rules of evidence, and shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing, including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence. The City Council may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The City Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application, and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant, and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the City Attorney of his or her representation prior to the start
of the hearing.
      (3)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the City Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by City
Attorney, City Council, or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by city and law enforcement personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by city administration
and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
       (4)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (5)   Any member of the City Council and the City Attorney may question
any witness, call witnesses, or request information. All witnesses shall be
sworn.
      (6)   The City Council may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (7)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 416, passed 10-7-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.19 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.20 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A) on May 18, 1983,
shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from retaining or
renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Liquor Control Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A) shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.21 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make and
submit to the Liquor Control Commission recommendations relative to the
granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the City Council has
been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to the
Executive Director of the Liquor Control Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.28, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution,
rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to
alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Liquor Control Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by
filing a notice of appeal with the Liquor Control Commission. The Liquor
Control Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing
on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Liquor Control Commission of the notice and
copy of application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for
a hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Liquor Control Commission, and after the hearing
the City Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The City Clerk shall mail to the Liquor Control Commission by first
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision
shall not void any license issued by the Liquor Control Commission. If the
Liquor Control Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Liquor Control Commission from the
security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the City Council
to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee or to an
immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50 days for
calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to exceed 15
days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the City Council as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The City Council shall
electronically notify the Liquor Control Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Liquor Control Commission, the City Clerk shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.22 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.23 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Liquor Control
Commission in the absence of a written request by the City Council to require
the licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application
for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue
all license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Liquor Control
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.24 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Liquor Control Commission of the notice and a
copy of the application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council
shall process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.25 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.26 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance,
that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the
Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.27 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by any
officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if the
act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.41 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell at retail any alcoholic beverages within the city except during
the hours provided herein:
 
                               Off Sale               On Sale
Alcoholic liquors (except beer                        
and wine):
   Secular days             6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays                  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and wine:                                        
   Secular days             6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays                  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail
in the original container for consumption off the premises of the licensed
establishment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-115) (Ord. 491, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.42 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-114) (Ord. 492, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 111.44 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor, regardless of sex,
under the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including
beer, to said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibition of identification
   
112.09   City policy on soliciting
   
112.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
112.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.04 or
112.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 112.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 112.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
112.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Lottery
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Participation; restrictions
LOTTERY
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF A MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL OR A CITY OFFICIAL.
      (1)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage, or adoption, and resides in the same household; or
      (2)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse of
the member or official, as a dependent, for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 709, passed 2-4-2014)
§ 113.02 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate, in any way,
in the lottery established and conducted by the city.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the city contracts
to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the city. No owner
or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the city shall play in
the lottery conducted by the city. No employee or agent of the city, lottery
operator, or authorized sales outlet location, shall play the lottery of the
city for which he or she performs work, during such time as he or she is
actually working at such lottery or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the City Council, a city
official, or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery conducted by the city, as long as such person is 19 years of age or
older.
   (D)   No person, or employee or agency of any person or the city, shall
knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or participate, in
any way, in the lottery conducted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 709, passed 2-4-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State provisions on participation restriction, see Neb. RS 9-646
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Trespassing
   
130.03   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.04   Larceny
   
130.05   Signs; defacing or interfering with
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the city; or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant, flower, or
grass growing thereon; or without the consent of the owner or occupant to enter
upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence purposes and to loiter
about the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same is entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than $300, shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512 and 28-514
§ 130.05 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND PUBLIC ORDER
Section
Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
   
131.01   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
131.02   False reporting
Offenses Against Public Order
   
131.15   Disorderly conduct
   
131.16   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.17   Obstructing water flow
   
131.18   Disturbing the peace
   
131.19   Assault and battery
   
131.20   Curfew; parents responsible
   
131.21   Excessive noise
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 131.01 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 131.15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to create a
public inconvenience, disturbance, annoyance, or alarm by participating in any
of the following: fighting, using threatening or abusive language, violent or
tumultuous behavior, making unreasonable noise, using abusive language or
gestures to any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-329) (Ord. 498, passed 5-3-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.17 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 131.18 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.19 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.20 CURFEW; PARENTS RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   Curfew. It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years
to ride in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public
place, or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, or other public places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on
Monday through Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day or between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. on Friday through Sunday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day
unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care, custody, or control of said minor or the minor is engaged in lawful
employment or is on an emergency errand; provided, when an activity of the kind
normally attended by minors under 18 years terminates after, or less than one
hour prior to the normal curfew time, the curfew shall commence one-half hour
after the termination of such activity. If any minor violates the provisions of
this section, the city police may take the minor into custody and shall notify
the parents or guardian of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
   (B)   Parents responsible for curfew violations. It shall be unlawful for
the parents, guardian, or any person having the care, custody, or control of
any minor under the age of 18 years to permit such minor to violate the
provisions of division (A) above. Any person permitting such activity as
prohibited in division (A) above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless
exempted under division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.21 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to operate any
radio, tape player, compact disc player, stereophonic sound system, or similar
devise, which reproduces or amplifies radio broadcasts or musical recordings,
in or upon any street, alley, or other public place in such a manner as to be
audible to any person at any point or place, more than 75 feet from the source.
   (B)   The prohibition set forth in division (A) above shall not apply to
such activity:
      (1)   When conducted in connection with an activity or event sponsored by
a school, church, or governmental entity;
      (2)   When conducted in connection with an activity open to the public,
such as a carnival, circus, or athletic event; and
       (3)   If a permit for same has been issued by the City Council, or its
designee, which permit may include such conditions as the City Council, or its
designee, shall deem necessary and appropriate; provided, however, such
conditions shall be reasonably related to preserving the public peace; and
shall not infringe upon the applicant’s right to free speech.
(Prior Code, § 6-331) (Ord. 600, passed 11-2-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Fireworks
   
132.02   Sexual predator residency restrictions
Nuisance Offenses
   
132.15   Appliances in yard
   
132.16   Littering
   
132.17   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
132.18   Disposal of garbage, rubbish, trash, waste, and yard waste
Substance Offenses
   
132.30   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
132.31   Huffing
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
132.45   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.46   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
132.60   Discharge of firearms
   
132.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Fireworks, generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
dispense or ignite or cause to be exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any
description whatsoever; except sparklers, vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charges, for the purpose of making a noise, color wheels, lady
fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length or one-eighth inch in
diameter, and which do not contain more than one-half gram each in weight of
explosive material. Consumer fireworks may be discharged from June 25 through
July 3 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and on July 4 between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. and on December 31 from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00
a.m. on January 1. It shall be unlawful to discharge fireworks from 12:00 a.m.
on July 4 to 8:00 a.m. on December 31 of that year and from 1:00 a.m. on
January 1 of the following year to 8:00 a.m. on June 25 of that year.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)
   (B)   Sale of fireworks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or
offer for sale as distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for the calendar year.
      (2)   Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
      (3)   Consumer fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 and between December 28 and January 1 of each year. (Prior Code, § 6-
314)
(Ord. 646, passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246 and 28-1249
§ 132.02 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state legislature has found certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
such persons’ place of residency, as provided in the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are at high risk to
repeat such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex
offender victimization to these children and society, at large, while
incalculable, is exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers, where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval prescribed in Neb.
RS Ch. 79.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003, and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision thereof;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the residency restriction was established after
the initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-333) (Ord. 727, passed 9-6-2016) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Child Care Licensing Act, see Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, see Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
   Sex Offender Registration Act, see Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
NUISANCE OFFENSES
§ 132.15 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 132.16 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   The word LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) (Ord. 556, passed 11-4-1997) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 132.17 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of six inches or
more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of six inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have such work done. Within five days after
receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground
does not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §  
132.99
§ 132.18 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, TRASH, WASTE, AND YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waster, or anything that may decompose
and become offensive to the public health.
      RUBBISH/TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the city.
      WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
      YARD WASTE. Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation.
   (B)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to throw, blow, or sweep into the
streets, alleys, parks, or other public grounds, any dirt, paper, nails, pieces
of glass, refuse, waste, yard waste, garbage, rubbish, or trash of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 6-332) (Ord. 666, passed 7-1-2008; Ord. 710, passed 3-4-2014)
Penalty, see §
132.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 132.30 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; and
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (b)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Ch. 75, Art. 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this city if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31 HUFFING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale or ingest in any manner,
paint, glue, nitrous oxide, or any other element or substance with the intent
to become impaired, intoxicated, or under the influence of such. A person who
violates this section commits the offense of huffing.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) Penalty, see §
132.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 132.45 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a MOBILE HOME or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a) Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
         (b) Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this city, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 132.46 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 132.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 132.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who violates §
132.02 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-333)
   (C)   The city police or other authorized law enforcement shall have the
authority to fine, remove, or both for violation of §
132.46. The fine for the first offense is $50, the second offense is $100, and
the third offense or more is $150. This is to also include any fees incurred by
the city for the removal of the vehicle which will be at the property owners’
cost.
(Ord. 727, passed 9-6-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
152.   MINIMUM DWELLING STANDARDS
      
153.   TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
155.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
156.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Codes
   
150.01   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
150.02   Housing Code; adopted by reference
   
150.03   Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
150.04   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.15   Building permits, generally
   
150.16   Limitation
   
150.17   Contractors
   
150.18   Barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.30   Regulations
   
150.31   Deposit
Building Inspector
   
150.45   Power and authority
   
150.46   Right of entry
   
150.47   Plans, specifications, plats, and reports
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the 2018 International Building Code and the 2018 International
Existing Building Code, printed in book form are hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions, as though printed in full
herein, insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state.
One copy of the Building Code and the 2018 International Existing Building Code
is on file at the office of the City Clerk and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-132
§ 150.02 HOUSING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the International Residential Code of 2018, published by the
International Code Council, and printed in book, pamphlet, or electronic form,
is hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions as
though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the
statutes of the state. Electronic copies of the Housing Code are on file at the
office of the City Clerk and are available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 714, passed 5-5-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-132
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating; the 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code,
designated by the American National Standards Institute as an American National
Standard and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the state. One copy
of the Uniform Plumbing Code is on file at the office of the City Clerk and are
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-701) (Ord. 458, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-132
§ 150.04 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fire proof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in
the installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical
Code, 2017 Edition, as recommended and published by the National Fire
Protection Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. One copy of the Electrical Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-132
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.15 BUILDING PERMITS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, or
cause the same to be done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a
building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished
by the City Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the
legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to
take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor; and such
plans and specifications so filed with the City Clerk, except as provided for
in §
150.45, shall be checked and examined by the City Council, and if they are
found to be in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter and all
other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue the said applicant a permit upon the payment of permit fees as
set forth in the city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 474, passed 1-7-1992; Ord. 478, passed 6-2-1992)
§ 150.16 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.17 CONTRACTORS.
   Before any contractor may begin any construction in the city, the contractor
shall ascertain that a proper building permit has been obtained from the City
Clerk and approved by the appropriate authorities.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 559, passed 2-3-1998)
§ 150.18 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials, and debris by suitable
barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure,
neglect, or refusal of the owner, tenant, or lessee to erect and maintain such
protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building
Inspector or other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the
buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used, and such other information as the City Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 150.31 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City
Council, the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.45 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the City Official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He or she
shall have the authority to approve building applications and issue building
permits for any project costing $3,500 or less. He or she shall inspect all
buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the city as often as necessary
to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have the power
and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council, all work stopped
on any construction, alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions
prescribed herein. He or she shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when the
City Council is satisfied that no provision will be violated.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 478, passed 6-2-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.46 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.47 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS, AND REPORTS.
   A city official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3401 et seq.
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Designation
   
151.02   Declaration of nuisance
   
151.03   Duty to make safe and secure
   
151.04   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
151.05   Procedure for immediate action
Enforcement
   
151.20   Duties of Building Inspector
   
151.21   [Reserved]
   
151.22   Placarding
   
151.23   [Reserved]
   
151.24   Issuance of permits to nuisance buildings
Procedure, Dispute and Compliance
   
151.40   Hearing schedule
   
151.41   Failure to comply
   
151.42   Disputes
   
151.43   Building Inspector; defined
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION.
   Any buildings and structures which have any or all of the following defects
are hereby declared to be dangerous buildings:
   (A)   All buildings and structures whose walls or other vertical structural
members list, lean, or buckle to such extent that a plumb line passing through
the center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   All buildings and structures which, exclusive of the foundation, show
33% or more of damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members or
50% of the damage or deterioration of the non- supporting members or the
outside covering;
   (C)   All buildings and structures which have improperly distributed loads
upon floors or roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have
insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   All buildings and structures which have been damaged by fire, wind, or
other causes so as to have become dangerous to life, safety, or the general
health and welfare of the occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   All buildings and structures which have become or are dilapidated,
decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities
essential to decent living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are
likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health,
morals, safety, or general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   All buildings and structures having light, air, and sanitation
facilities which are inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general
welfare of human beings who live or may live therein;
   (G)   All buildings and structures having inadequate facilities for egress
in case of fire or panic or those having insufficient stairways, elevators,
fire escapes, or other means of communication;
   (H)   All buildings and structures which have parts thereof which are so
attached that they may fall and injure persons or property; and
   (I)   All buildings and structures existing in violation of any provision of
this chapter, any provision of the Fire Prevention Code, or other applicable
provision of this code or ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1101) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any building or structure found to be unsafe or unfit for occupancy or use,
or any building or structure which is liable to fall or collapse from inherent
structural weakness, or as the result of fire, decay, or other defect, and
which the owner refuses to repair in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and the city’s Building Code, or any structure which has deteriorated
from any cause to the extent that repairs would cost 50% of the cost of a
similar new building is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-1102) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 151.03 DUTY TO MAKE SAFE AND SECURE.
   Any building or other structure, or any appurtenance in, upon, or about such
building or other structure, found, either in whole or in part, to be
structurally unsafe, or dangerous in case of or as a result of fire, panic,
tornado, wind, lightning, deterioration, or other cause, or which is
insufficient or unsafe for the purpose for which it is intended to be used,
shall be made safe and secure by the owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of such
building or other structure within the time set forth in written notice from
the Building or Housing Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-1103) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 151.04 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Building Official or Chief
Housing Inspector when ordering repair, vacation, or demolition.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be ordered
repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be
ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where a dangerous building is 50% damaged or decayed, or
deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished; and
in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this chapter it shall be demolished. In all
cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the terms of this chapter it shall be demolished. In all cases
where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in violation of
the terms of this chapter, or any other provision of this code or ordinance of
the city, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
(Prior Code, § 9-1104) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 151.05 PROCEDURE FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   If immediate action is deemed necessary to protect life or limb or due to
other emergency, the Building or Housing Inspector or such other person as
authorized by the City Council may cause an unsafe or dangerous building,
structure, appurtenance, or apparatus, or any portion or part thereof, to be
taken down or repaired without delay. The cost of taking down or repairing any
building or structure under the provisions of this section shall be collected
in the same manner provided for by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1105) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.20 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The duties of the Building Inspector are to:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in a dangerous manner;
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the city for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a dangerous building within the terms of this chapter;
   (C)   Placard every building or structure found to be a dangerous building.
Such placard shall be placed on the exterior near the main entrance and shall
state that the building or structure is unsafe or unfit for occupancy and use;
and
   (D)   Perform all other duties as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1106) (Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 151.21 [RESERVED].
§ 151.22 PLACARDING.
   The Building Inspector shall placard every building or structure found to be
unsafe or unfit for occupancy or use under the provisions of this chapter. Such
placard shall be placed on the exterior near the main entrance and shall set
forth that such building or structure is unsafe or unfit for occupancy and use.
(Prior Code, § 9-1108) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 151.23 [RESERVED].
§ 151.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS TO NUISANCE BUILDINGS.
   After the Building Inspector has determined a building as being dangerous or
a nuisance, no building permit for the building may be issued except with the
consent and approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1110) (Ord. 563, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
PROCEDURE, DISPUTE AND COMPLIANCE
§ 151.40 NUISANCE; PROCEDURE.
   If the Building Inspector determines that a building or structure is unsafe
or dangerous and a nuisance, he or she shall:
   (A)   Notify or cause to be notified the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee,
agent or other persons having an interest in the building or structure that it
has been found to be unsafe or dangerous. The notice will indicate whether the
owner must vacate, repair, or demolish the building or structure. The notice
shall be served upon all such persons by personal service or certified U.S.
mail, return receipt requested. In the event neither personal service nor
certified U.S. mail is successful, notice shall be provided by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city for three successive weeks.
   (B)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe or dangerous, accompanied by a statement of the particulars which
make the building or structure unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring the
same to be put in such condition as to comply with the terms of this chapter
within such length of time not exceeding 60 calendar days.
   (C)   Place a sign or notice on the building or structure found to be unsafe
or dangerous on its exterior near the main entrance which shall set forth that
the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous for occupancy and use.
   (D)   Index a copy of the notice in the records of the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 151.41 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other person having
an interest in the building or structure shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe or dangerous and a
public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the notice. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the
property. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments pursuant to law. In
addition, the city may bring a civil action against all appropriate persons to
recover the cost of the work.
(Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 151.42 DISPUTES.
   (A)   In the event that the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or
other person having an interest in the building or structure determined
dangerous, disagrees with or disputes the information contained in the notice,
such person shall notify the City Clerk with a written statement that sets
forth the reasons for the disagreement or dispute and the relief requested.
This written request shall be made within 14 calendar days of service of the
notice. If written request is received by the City Clerk within 14 calendar
days, a hearing shall be held before the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. The City Clerk shall notify the person requesting the
hearing, in writing, of the time, place, and date of the regular meeting and
shall place the name of the person on the agenda of such meeting.
   (B)   The hearing before the City Council shall be informal and not governed
by the Nebraska Rules of Evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-judicial in
nature and its decision shall be based on the evidence presented at the
hearing. The person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal counsel
or other representative, may present witnesses and offer evidence, and may
examine and copy, at his or her own expense, and not less than three business
days before the hearing, the records of the city regarding the inspection and
notice. The City Council need not make a written finding of fact and may make
its pronouncement orally at the hearing. The decision of the City Council shall
be final unless appealed. Failure of the person to attend the hearing shall
relieve the City Council of any further procedures before action is taken as
set forth in the notice.
(Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 151.43 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DEFINED.
   Whenever used in this chapter, the term “Building Inspector” shall include
“housing inspector,” “building official,” “building condemnation consultant,”
and such other person as authorized by the City Council to perform the powers
and duties set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 771, passed 6-11-2024)
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM DWELLING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Conflicting provisions
   
152.003   Inspections authorized
   
152.004   Right of entry
   
152.005   Emergencies
Notice of Violation
   
152.020   Issuance
   
152.021   Contents
   
152.022   Service
   
152.023   Extension of time for compliance
   
152.024   Right to hearing
   
152.025   Hearing on violation
Appeals; Variances
   
152.040   Appeals, generally
   
152.041   Hearing date
   
152.042   Action by City Council
   
152.043   Variances, generally
   
152.044   Appeal to courts
Unfit Dwellings
   
152.055   Determination; placarding
   
152.056   Vacation
   
152.057   Removal of placard upon correction of defects
   
152.058   Unauthorized removal of placard
   
152.059   Hearing and appeal
Housing Standards; Rules and Regulations
   
152.070   Adoption by Administrator
   
152.071   City Council approval
   
152.072   Status
Minimum Equipment and Facilities
   
152.085   Compliance
   
152.086   Kitchen sink
   
152.087   Separate toilet room
   
152.088   Separate bathroom
   
152.089   Hot and cold water connections
   
152.090   Rubbish storage facilities
   
152.091   Garbage disposal facilities
   
152.092   Water heating facilities
   
152.093   Exits
Light, Ventilation, and Heating
   
152.105   Compliance
   
152.106   Windows and skylights
   
152.107   Bathrooms and toilet rooms
   
152.108   Electric light fixtures and outlets
   
152.109   Heating facilities
   
152.110   Lights in public halls and stairways
   
152.111   Screens on windows
   
152.112   Screening against rodents
Maintenance
   
152.125   Compliance
   
152.126   Foundation, floors, walls, ceilings, and roof
   
152.127   Windows, doors, and other openings
   
152.128   Stairs and porches
   
152.129   Plumbing fixtures and pipes
   
152.130   Bathrooms and toilet room floors
   
152.131   Supplied equipment and facilities
   
152.132   Removing or shutting off equipment and facilities
   
152.133   Dwelling units to be clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy
Space, Use, and Location
   
152.145   Compliance
   
152.146   Total floor space
   
152.147   Floor space in sleeping rooms
   
152.148   Routes to bathroom or other rooms
   
152.149   Ceiling height
   
152.150   Occupancy of basement rooms
   
152.151   Maximum number of occupants
Responsibilities of Owners and Occupants
   
152.165   Cleanliness of public areas
   
152.166   Cleanliness of occupied areas
   
152.167   Disposal of rubbish
   
152.168   Disposal of garbage
   
152.169   Hanging screens and storm doors
   
152.170   Extermination of insects and other pests
   
152.171   Maintenance of plumbing fixtures
Rooming Houses
   
152.185   Minimum requirements
   
152.186   Hotels
   
152.187   Toilet facilities
   
152.188   Clean towels and bed linen
   
152.189   Floor space with sleeping rooms
   
152.190   Exits
   
152.191   Sanitary maintenance
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, or PREMISES are
used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof.”
   ADMINISTRATOR. The officer designated by the Mayor.
   BASEMENT. A story of a building or structure having one-half or more but
less than three-fourths of its clear height below grade.
   CELLAR. A story of a building or structure having three-fourths or more of
its clear height below grade.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partially used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any habitable room or group of habitable rooms located within
a building and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used
or intended to be used for living quarters, including sleeping, cooking, and
eating.
   ENCLOSED FLOOR SPACE. A wall system that surrounds a floor space and is
permanently attached to the floor causing it to be immobile and affording an
opening for egress or entrance to the floor space.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places or their food, by poisoning,
spraying fumigating, trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest
elimination methods approved by the Administrator.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living quarters, including sleeping, cooking and eating purposes, excluding
bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or
communicating corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling or structure, or part of such structure,
containing three or more dwelling units or rooming units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature 15°F above the lowest
recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who, alone, or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner.
      (2)   Any such person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PLUMBING. Any of the following supplied facilities and equipment, water
pipes, gas-burning plumbing equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units,
waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains,
plumbing vents, and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all
connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used, or intended to be used, for sleeping but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste material, except garbage; and
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, and dust.
   SLEEPING SPACE. An enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
sleeping purposes.
   SUPPLIED. Provided, furnished, or paid for by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 9-1201) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.002 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or health ordinance or
code of this city existing on April 5, 1994, the provision which establishes
the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the people shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-1203) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.003 INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to:
   (A)   Make inspections responding to tenant complaints after the 14-day
notification time frame set forth for repairs in the Uniform Residential
Landlord and Tenant Act of the state, Neb. RS 76-1422 to 76-1428, as amended;
   (B)   Determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units,
and premises thereof located within the city; and
   (C)   Discover conditions affecting the health, safety, and welfare of
occupants and of the general public in order to obtain the data required to
determine the steps necessary under this chapter to safeguard the health,
safety, and welfare of the occupants and the general public.
(Prior Code, § 9-1204) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   For the purpose of inspection, the Administrator is hereby authorized
to enter, examine, and survey all of the premises, subject to the approval of
the owner or occupant.
   (B)   Upon refusal by the owner or occupant to permit inspections at
reasonable times, the Administrator may apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction for a warrant authorizing entry of the premises and inspection
thereof.
   (C)   Refusal to honor the warrant and permit inspection of the premises
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9-1205) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.005 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Administrator, an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare, an order may be issued without notice, conference, or hearing,
directing the owner, occupant, operator, or agent to take such action as is
appropriate to correct or abate the emergency. If circumstances warrant, the
Administrator may act to correct or abate the emergency.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, operator, or agent shall be granted a conference
on the matter upon his or her request, as soon as practicable, but such
conference shall in no case stay the abatement of correction of such
emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 9-1217) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
NOTICE OF VIOLATION
§ 152.020 ISSUANCE.
   Whenever the Administrator shall determine that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant hereto, he or she shall
give notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons responsible
therefore.
(Prior Code, § 9-1206) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.021 CONTENTS.
   The notice of violation authorized by this chapter shall:
   (A)   Be in writing and contain a description thereof;
   (B)   Include a statement of findings made upon the inspection; and
   (C)   Fix a reasonable time for the performance of the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 9-1207) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.022 SERVICE.
   Each notice of a violation of the provisions of this chapter issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall be served upon the owner, or his or her
agent, provided that the notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy
is served on the owner, or his or her agent, personally, or if a copy is sent
by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the owner or agent. If service cannot be obtained by such means,
service may be obtained by posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place
in or about the premises affected by the notice.
(Prior Code, § 9-1208) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.023 EXTENSION OF TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application from the person required to conform to a
notice of violation of this chapter and an agreement by such person that he or
she will comply with such notice if allowed additional time, the Administrator
may, at his or her discretion, grant an extension of time in which to complete
the required repairs or rehabilitation, if the Administrator determines that
such an extension of time will not create or perpetuate a situation immediately
dangerous to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 9-1209) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.024 RIGHT TO HEARING.
   Any person affected by a notice of violation issued under the provisions of
this chapter in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter, or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant hereto, may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1210) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.025 HEARING ON VIOLATION.
   (A)   Request for hearing. Any person desiring a hearing on a notice of
violation of this chapter shall request such hearing by filing a written
petition therefore with the Administrator, setting forth a brief statement of
the grounds therefore, within 20 days after receipt of the notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1211)
   (B)   Time and place. Upon receiving a petition for a hearing on a notice of
violation issued under the provisions of this chapter, the Administrator shall
set a time and place for such hearing and give the petitioner notice thereof.
The hearing shall be commenced not later than 20 days after the date the
petition was filed.
(Prior Code, § 9-1212)
   (C)   Postponement at request of petitioner. Upon application of the
petitioner, the Administrator may postpone the date of the hearing on a notice
of violation of this chapter for a reasonable time beyond the 20-day period
provided by this chapter if, in his or her judgment, the petitioner has
submitted good and sufficient cause for such postponement.
(Prior Code, § 9-1213)
   (D)   Conduct. At the hearing on a notice of violation of the provisions of
this chapter, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard to show
cause why such notice should be modified or withdrawn.
(Prior Code, § 9-1214)
   (E)   Record. The proceedings at a hearing on a notice of violation of the
provisions of this chapter, including the findings and decision of the
Administrator, shall be summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter
of public record in the office of the Administrator. Such record shall also
include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1215)
   (F)   Order. At the conclusion of a hearing on a notice of violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the Administrator shall sustain, modify, or
withdraw the notice, depending upon his or her finding as to whether the
provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
hereto have been complied with. If the Administrator sustains or modifies such
notice, it shall be deemed an order. Any notice served pursuant to §
152.020 shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing
is not filed in the Office of the Administrator within 20 days after such
notice is received.
(Prior Code, § 9-1216)
(Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
APPEALS; VARIANCES
§ 152.040 APPEALS, GENERALLY.
   Whenever the Administrator shall make any order in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, or when it is claimed that the provisions of this
chapter do not apply, or that the true intent and meaning of this chapter has
been misconstrued or wrongfully interpreted, the party aggrieved may appeal
from the decision of the Administrator to the City Council by filing with the
City Clerk written objections to such order within ten days from the date of
such order. Such written objections shall set forth the location of the
property and all grounds for the objections.
(Prior Code, § 9-1218) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.041 HEARING DATE.
   Upon receipt of an appeal under the provisions of §
152.040, the City Clerk shall set a hearing date and shall immediately notify
the Administrator and the objectors in writing that such hearing has been set
before the City Council, stating therein the date, time, and place of such
hearing and that the parties are to appear before the City Council to be heard
on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1219) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.042 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall hear the testimony of all parties interested in an
appeal filed under §
152.040. After such hearing, the Council may affirm, modify, or reverse the
order of the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1220) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.043 VARIANCES, GENERALLY.
   The City Council may grant variances from the provisions of this chapter, or
from applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant hereto, upon appeal by
the objector when the Administrative Appeals Board finds that:
   (A)   There is a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship connected with
the performance of any act required by this chapter or rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant hereto;
   (B)   Strict adherence to such provisions would be arbitrary in the case at
hand; and
   (C)   An extension would not provide an appropriate remedy in the case at
hand in that such variances are in harmony with the general purpose of this
chapter to safeguard the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 9-1221) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.044 APPEAL TO COURTS.
   Any decision of the City Council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
may be appealed to the District Court. Such appeal must be filed within 30 days
from the date of the order, decision, or award of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 9-1222) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
UNFIT DWELLINGS
§ 152.055 DETERMINATION; PLACARDING.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be designated as unfit for human habitation and shall
be so placarded by the Administrator:
   (A)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or
vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public;
   (B)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public; and
   (C)   One which because of its general condition or location is unsanitary
or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 9-1223) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.056 VACATION.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit designated as unfit for human habitation, and
so placarded by the Administrator, shall be vacated within a reasonable time as
ordered by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1224) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.057 REMOVAL OF PLACARD UPON CORRECTION OF DEFECTS.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been so designated and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from and such placard is removed by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall remove such placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the designation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 9-1225) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.058 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF PLACARD.
   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling
unit which has been designated as unfit for human habitation and placarded as
such, except as provided in §
152.057.
(Prior Code, § 9-1226) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.059 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the designating and
placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Administrator
under the procedure set forth in §§
152.020 through
152.025 and 152.040 through 152.044.
(Prior Code, § 9-1227) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
HOUSING STANDARDS; RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 ADOPTION BY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized to make and, after public hearing has
been held, to adopt such written rules and regulations as may be necessary for
the proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; provided, that such
rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1228) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.071 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   After adoption by the Administrator, he or she shall file a certified
copy of rules and regulations authorized by this chapter with the City Clerk,
who shall submit the same to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (B)   Such rules and regulations shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon approval by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-1229) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.072 STATUS.
   Rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of this subchapter and
approved by the City Council shall have the same force and effect as the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1230) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
MINIMUM EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
§ 152.085 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or permit another to occupy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, and eating therein, which
does not comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1232) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.086 KITCHEN SINK.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working condition
and properly connected to a water and sewer system, or a septic tank; all
connections are to comply with the provisions of the city’s Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1233) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.087 SEPARATE TOILET ROOM.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room or rooms which afford privacy to a
person within said room, and which is equipped with a water closet and a basin
in good working condition. All plumbing fixtures and appurtenances thereto
shall be installed and connected in conformance to the requirements of the
city’s Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1234) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.088 SEPARATE BATHROOM.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room or rooms which afford privacy to a
person within said room, and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good
working condition. All plumbing fixtures and appurtenances thereto shall be
installed and connected in conformance to the requirements of the city’s
Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1235) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.089 HOT AND COLD WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower required under the
provisions of §§
152.086 through
152.088 shall be properly connected with both hot and cold water lines.
(Prior Code, § 9-1236) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.090 RUBBISH STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate rubbish storage facilities, the type
and location of which shall comply with the provisions for disposal of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 9-1237) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.091 GARBAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers, the type and location of which shall comply with
the provisions for disposal of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 9-1238) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.092 WATER HEATING FACILITIES.
   Every dwelling shall have supplied water heating facilities which are
properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and are
properly connected with the hot water lines required under the provisions of §
152.089, and are capable of heating water to a temperature of not less than
120°F (48.9°C) at the outlet to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn
at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower. Such
supplied water heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the requirements
of this section when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating facilities required
under the provisions of §
152.109 are not in operation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1239) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.093 EXITS.
   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this state and the
city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1240) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
LIGHT, VENTILATION, AND HEATING
§ 152.105 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or permit another to occupy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1241) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.106 WINDOWS AND SKYLIGHTS.
   (A)   Total area required. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window
area measured between stops, for every habitable room, shall be 10% of the
floor area of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a
window of any such room and such light obstruction structures are located less
than three feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling
of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
(Prior Code, § 9-1242)
   (B)   Total openable area. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight which can easily be opened or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room shall be equal to at least 50% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight-type window size, as required in §
152.149, except where there is supplied some other device for affording
adequate ventilation and approved by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1243)
(Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.107 BATHROOMS AND TOILET ROOMS.
   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the light and
ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in §
152.106, except that no window or skylight shall be required in adequately
ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a ventilation
system which is in good working order.
(Prior Code, § 9-1244) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.108 ELECTRIC LIGHT FIXTURES AND OUTLETS.
   Where there is electric service available from power lines which are not
more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, every habitable room of such dwelling
shall contain at least two separate floor or wall-type electric convenience
outlets, or one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling-type electric
light fixture; and every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room,
furnace room, and public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or
wall-type electric light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be
properly installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working condition, and
shall be connected to the source of electric power in a safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-1245) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.109 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Required. Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are
properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition to comply
with the provisions of the Building Code, and which maintain safe and adequate
heating of all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water closet compartments in
every dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at least 70°F (21.1°C)
under ordinary minimum winter conditions. Temperature readings shall be taken
at a height of three feet above the floor at approximately the center of the
room or rooms.
(Prior Code, § 9-1246)
   (B)   Notice of violation; hearing. Notwithstanding any provisions of this
chapter, any person affected by a notice of violation of division (A) above
shall request a hearing thereon, if such hearing is desired, within 24 hours of
the receipt of such notice. If such hearing is not requested within such 24
hours, such notice shall automatically become an order enforceable as provided
in this chapter. If requested, such hearing shall be conducted as provided in
§§
152.003, 152.004, and 152.020 through 152.024.
(Prior Code, § 9-1247)
   (C)   Enforcement. If the owner or mortgagee or other person having an
interest in a building fails to comply with the notice provided for in division
(B) above, or any reasonable time ordered by the Administrator, then the
Administrator shall cause such building or structure to be repaired or vacated
as the facts may warrant under the standards provided in division (A) above.
The costs of such repair or vacation shall be levied against the lot or tract
of land upon which the building or structure is situated as a special
assessment in the manner as provided by law. In the event a vacation of the
substandard building is ordered or agreed to, the cost thereof levied against
the lot or tract of land upon which the building or structure is situated shall
not exceed the amount expended in moving the occupants and their personal
property to another suitable dwelling located within the city. The special
taxes so levied shall become due and payable immediately, and delinquent 50
days thereafter, and shall bear interest at the same rate provided by state law
for interest on delinquent special assessments. All such assessments shall be
equalized, levied, and collected as otherwise provided by law for the
equalization, levying, and collection of special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 9-1248)
(Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.110 LIGHTS IN PUBLIC HALLS AND STAIRWAYS.
   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing five or
more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every public hall
and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and containing
not more than four dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located
light switches, controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on
when needed, instead of full-time lighting.
(Prior Code, § 9-1249) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.111 SCREENS ON WINDOWS.
   During that portion of each year when the Administrator deems it necessary
for protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other insects, every door opening
directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and
a self-closing device; and every window or other device with openings to
outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be
supplied with screens; provided that such screens shall not be required during
such period in rooms deemed by the Administrator to be located high enough in
the upper stories of buildings as to be free from such insects.
(Prior Code, § 9-1250) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.112 SCREENING AGAINST RODENTS.
   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for ventilation,
and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry for rodents,
shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will effectively
prevent their entrance.
(Prior Code, § 9-1251) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
MAINTENANCE
§ 152.125 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or permit another to occupy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1252) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.126 FOUNDATION, FLOORS, WALLS, CEILINGS, AND ROOF.
   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably weather
tight, watertight, and rodent proof; shall be capable of affording privacy; and
shall be kept in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 9-1253) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.127 WINDOWS, DOORS, AND OTHER OPENINGS.
   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weather tight, watertight, and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
(Prior Code, § 9-1254) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.128 STAIRS AND PORCHES.
   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto
shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
that nominal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
(Prior Code, § 9-1255) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.129 PLUMBING FIXTURES AND PIPES.
   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly installed
to comply with the provisions of the Plumbing Code, and maintained in good
sanitary working condition, free front defects, leaks, and obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 9-1256) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.130 BATHROOMS AND TOILET ROOM FLOORS.
   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-1257) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.131 SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility which is required
under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will function
safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working
condition and installed according to the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9-1258) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.132 REMOVING OR SHUTTING OFF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility which is required under this chapter to be removed from,
or shut of from, or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by
him, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies when
discontinuance of service is approved by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1259) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.133 DWELLING UNITS TO BE CLEAN, SANITARY, AND FIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.
   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling unit
unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 9-1260) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION
§ 152.145 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or permit another to occupy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1261) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.146 TOTAL FLOOR SPACE.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor space
for the first occupant thereof, and at least 75 additional square feet of floor
space for one additional occupant, and 100 square feet of floor space for each
additional occupant thereof, which floor space is to be calculated on the basis
of total habitable room area. For purposes of this section, the floor space of
the bathroom may be counted and included in the calculated total floor space
available.
(Prior Code, § 9-1262) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.147 FLOOR SPACE IN SLEEPING ROOMS.
   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each occupant
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1263) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.148 ROUTES TO BATHROOM OR OTHER ROOMS.
   No dwelling or structure occupied by two or more families shall have such
room arrangements that any occupant must pass through a common bathroom or a
room of another family in order to enter his or her own quarters. Rooms of each
dwelling unit shall be so constructed and located as to provide privacy from
other living units in the structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-1264) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.149 CEILING HEIGHT.
   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have a
ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the floor area of that part of any
room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not be considered as
part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the
purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1265) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.150 OCCUPANCY OF BASEMENT ROOMS.
   No basement shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
   (A)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and insulated against dampness;
   (B)   The total window area in each room is equal to at least the minimum
window area sizes as required in §
152.106;
   (C)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the grade
of the ground adjoining such window area; and
   (D)   The total openable window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum required under §
152.106, except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1266) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.151 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   Every dwelling unit of one habitable room shall be occupied by a maximum of
two occupants.
(Prior Code, § 9-1267) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 152.165 CLEANLINESS OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall be
responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1268) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.166 CLEANLINESS OF OCCUPIED AREAS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and premises
thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
(Prior Code, § 9-1269) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.167 DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all rubbish
in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish containers required
by §
152.090.
(Prior Code, § 9-1270) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.168 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
or her garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal
facilities or garbage containers required by §
152.091.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply such facilities
or containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four
dwelling units for all dwelling units located on premises where more than four
dwelling units share the same premises. In all other cases it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or containers.
(Prior Code, § 9-1271) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.169 HANGING SCREENS AND STORM DOORS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
(Prior Code, § 9-1272) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.170 EXTERMINATION OF INSECTS AND OTHER PESTS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is infested. Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever infestation is caused by
failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat proof or reasonable insect
proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
Whenever infestation exists in the shared or public parts of any dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the
responsibility of the owner. The extermination of termites shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 9-1273) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.171 MAINTENANCE OF PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1274) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
ROOMING HOUSES
§ 152.185 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or permit another
to occupy any rooming unit, except in compliance with all applicable provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1275) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.186 HOTELS.
   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall also
apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be found in
conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful regulations of any
state board or agency.
(Prior Code, § 9-1276) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.187 TOILET FACILITIES.
   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system conforming to the requirements
of this code and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each eight
persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including members
of the operator’s family, wherever they share the use of the said facilities;
provided, that in a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half the required number of
water closets. All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as
to be reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons
sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be
supplied with hot water at all times. No such facilities shall be located in a
basement except by written approval of the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1277) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.188 CLEAN TOWELS AND BED LINEN.
   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen and
towels therein at least once each week and prior to the letting of any room to
any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-1278) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.189 FLOOR SPACE WITH SLEEPING ROOMS.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at
least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-1279) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.190 EXITS.
   Every rooming unit shall have a safe, unobstructed means of egress leading
to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this state
and the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1280) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.191 SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for maintenance of a
sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he or she
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the
operator.
(Prior Code, § 9-1281) (Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter and any willful
failure or refusal to comply with any valid and final order made under the
authority of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person guilty
thereof shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Every person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for every day on which such violation, neglect, or refusal
shall continue.
(Prior Code, § 9-1202)
   (B)   The penalty for the violation of any rule or regulation promulgated
under the authority of §§
152.070 through
152.072 shall be the same as the penalty for the violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1231)
(Ord. 560, passed 2-12-1998)
CHAPTER 153: TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Parking restrictions
   
153.03   Emergency or temporary parking
Trailers
   
153.15   Location
   
153.16   City Park
Mobile Homes
   
153.30   Location requirements
   
153.31   Permission of City Council
   
153.32   Request for permission
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOMES. A year-round, single-family structure for permanent (more than
30 days) living quarters, with at least 1,100 square feet of living area, and
designed and built to be towed on its own chassis.
(Prior Code, § 9-901)
   TRAILER. A temporary dwelling for recreational, vacation, or travel purposes
and with less than 1,100 square feet of living area.
(Prior Code, § 9-902)
§ 153.02 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful within the city, for any person to park any trailer or
mobile home on any street, alley or highway or other public place, or on any
tract of land owned by any person within the city except under the conditions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-903) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 EMERGENCY OR TEMPORARY PARKING.
   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley, or highway for not longer than two hours subject to any other
prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the Traffic Regulations of
this code for that street, alley, or highway.
(Prior Code, § 9-904)
TRAILERS
§ 153.15 LOCATION.
   No person shall park or occupy any trailer, or erect a foundation for
placement of a trailer on the premises of any occupied or unoccupied dwelling
or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any occupied or unoccupied
dwelling unless such location is within a trailer court approved by the City
Council; provided, the parking of one unoccupied trailer in an accessory
private garage building or in a rear yard of a lot situated in any zoning
district is permitted; and provided further, that no living quarters shall be
maintained nor any business conducted in such trailer where such trailer is so
parked or stored.
(Prior Code, § 9-905) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 CITY PARK.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to trailers located in
the City Park.
(Prior Code, § 9-909)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 153.30 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Mobile homes, as defined in this chapter and whether moved into the city on
wheels or otherwise, must be located on a solid foundation with tongue or other
pulling device removed. Said foundation must be constructed with permanent
materials, but must also permit the mobile home unit to be conveniently removed
and replaced. The owner or occupant must provide utilities at each mobile home
space or installation.
(Prior Code, § 9-906)
§ 153.31 PERMISSION OF CITY COUNCIL.
   All mobile homes, as defined in this chapter, may be located only in areas
approved by the City Council and must otherwise conform to all present and
future zoning requirements.
(Prior Code, § 9-907)
§ 153.32 REQUEST FOR PERMISSION.
   Before locating or installing any mobile home in the city, the owner or
occupant shall request permission from the City Council either in writing or
through personal appearance and shall satisfactorily show the proposed location
of the unit, its size, the use for which intended, and any other information
which the City Council may request. If the City Council grants permission to
locate the mobile home at the site requested, the owner or occupant may then,
and only then, proceed with actual installation, and said installation must
conform to the plans as proposed by the owner or occupant to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-908)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in the sum of not less than $20 nor more than $50 for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-910)
CHAPTER 154: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Deployment in the right-of-way
   
154.04   Agreement for use of the right-of-way
   
154.05   Administrative review
   
154.06   Right-of-way construction and installation requirements
   
154.07   Attachment to and replacement of decorative poles
   
154.08   General work requirements
   
154.09   Location of new facilities
   
154.10   Removal, relocation, and abandonment
   
154.11   Indemnification
   
154.12   Insurance
   
154.13   Independent technical and legal review
   
154.14   Shot clocks
   
154.15   Relief
   
154.16   Other approvals
   
154.17   Laws, rules, and regulations; conflicts
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the “Small Wireless
Facilities Regulations for the Right-of-Way.” It is the purpose of these
provisions to delineate restrictions, development standards and siting
criteria, and establish removal procedures in order to protect the city from
the uncontrolled siting of wireless communication facilities in locations that
have significant adverse effects and cause irreparable harm.
   (B)   The Legislature found and declared in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act that:
      (1)   The deployment of small wireless facilities and other next-
generation wireless facilities is a matter of statewide concern and interest
and public policy;
      (2)   Wireless products and services are a significant and continually
growing part of the state’s economy and that encouraging the development of
strong and robust wireless communications networks throughout the state is
necessary to address public need and policy and is integral to the state’s
economic competitiveness;
      (3)   Rapid deployment of small wireless facilities will serve numerous
important statewide goals and public policy, including meeting growing consumer
demand for wireless data, increasing competitive options for communications
services available to the state’s residents, improving the ability of the
state’s residents to communicate with other residents and with their state and
local governments, and promoting public safety;
      (4)   Small wireless facilities, including facilities commonly referred
to as small cells and distributed antenna systems, are deployed most
effectively in public rights-of-way;
      (5)   To meet the public need and policy and the key objectives of the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act that wireless providers must have
access to the public rights-of-way to densify their networks and provide next-
generation wireless services;
      (6)   Uniform procedures, rates, and fees for permit issuance and
deployment of small wireless facilities in public rights-of-way and on
authority infrastructure, including poles, throughout the state that are
reasonable and will encourage the development of robust next-generation
wireless networks for the benefit of residents throughout the state; and
      (7)   The procedures, rates, and fees in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, together with any taxes, fees, or charges imposed under Neb. RS
86-704:
         (a)   Are fair and reasonable when viewed from the perspective of the
state’s residents and the state’s interest in having robust, reliable, and
technologically advanced wireless networks; and
         (b)   Reflect a balancing of the interests of the wireless providers
deploying new facilities and the interests of authorities in receiving fair
value by recovering their costs of managing access to the public rights-of-way
and provide for the attachment space on authority infrastructure and enable the
reviewing and processing of applications for the installation of small wireless
facilities within the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
Statutory reference:
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, see Neb. RS 86-1201 et seq.
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, and the
legislation cited shall mean as the statute or regulation existed on January 1,
2019.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being Neb. RS 86-1201 et
seq.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
the Act and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the authority and are
generally applicable in the jurisdiction.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to an authority:
      (1)   For a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure; or
      (2)   For a permit for approval for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole to support the installation of a small wireless
facility.
   AUTHORITY. The State of Nebraska or any agency, county, city, village, or
other political subdivision thereof, except as otherwise excluded herein.
AUTHORITY does not include public power suppliers, state courts having
jurisdiction over an authority, or an entity that does not have zoning or
permit-granting authority.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of an authority.
   CITY. The City of Lyons Nebraska.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council for the City of Lyons, Nebraska.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), a telecommunications carrier as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 153(51), a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(24), or a wireless services provider, to provide communications services,
including cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(8), an information
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), wireless services, or other one-way
or two-way communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522, an
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, a telecommunications service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522,
a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153. COMMUNICATIONS
SERVICE PROVIDER includes a wireless provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a(i)-(v) of
the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appx. C, or designated pursuant to
state historic preservation law if such designation exists at the time of
application.
   LAW. Federal, state, or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order, or ordinance.
   MACRO CELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops, or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and with any exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action, initiate, continue, or complete installation of a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or attached to an existing wireless
support structure, or to install, modify, or replace a utility pole to support
installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an association, a trust, or any other entity or organization,
including an authority.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material, located or to be located
within the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER includes a city
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement, or similar property, but
not including a freeway as defined in Neb. RS 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Inspections, testing, or repair that maintain
functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a small wireless
facility and the associated structure, pole, or tower, and that does not
involve impeding, damaging or disturbing any portion of the right-of-way.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative, or an electric membership
association, that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class, or city of the first class.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including
the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures.
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. § 800.16(x); and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. §
1.1307(b).
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of STEALTH design include, but are not
limited to, facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and
light poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights, and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally, applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   TOWER. Any structure in the right-of-way built for the sole or primary
purpose of supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet in height, shall not be included within
TOWER HEIGHT.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communication services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for wireline
communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures for
traffic control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include:
      (1)   Wireless support structures;
      (2)   Any transmission infrastructure owned or operated by a public power
supplier or rural public power supplier; and
      (3)   Any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or operated
by a rural public power supplier.
    WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular power supply, and small back-up battery, regardless of technological
configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within the equipment
which is collocated;
         (b)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, a particular antenna; or
         (c)   A wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, when acting to build or
install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or
wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of wi-fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure such as a guyed or self-supporting
tower, billboard, building, or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.03 DEPLOYMENT IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Public power supplier poles. A public power supplier shall not be
required to allow the collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles
owned, operated, or managed by a public power supplier except pursuant to a
negotiated pole attachment agreement containing reasonable and
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including, but not limited to,
applicable rates, and the permit, operational, and safety requirements of the
public power supplier. The city is a public power supplier.
   (B)   Annual rate for collocation on public power supplier poles. The annual
pole attachment rate for the collocation of a small wireless facility supported
by or installed on a utility pole owned, operated, or managed by a public power
supplier shall be fair, reasonable, nondiscriminatory, cost-based, and set by
the board of such public power supplier in accordance with Neb. RS 70-655.
   (C)   Placement. This section only applies to the deployment of small
wireless facilities in the right-of-way with the exception that the application
fees provided in the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order
released September 27, 2018, being 33 FCC Rcd 9088 (14), apply to small
wireless facilities in and outside of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.04 AGREEMENT FOR USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Agreement. Prior to installing in the right-of-way any small wireless
facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
small wireless facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an agreement
with the city expressly authorizing use of the right-of-way for the small
wireless facility, pole, or tower proposed to be installed. The agreement shall
provide for the attachment to city poles or structures in the right-of-way in
addition to poles or structures owned by unrelated third parties; provided,
that the applicant secures the written consent of the third party for such
attachment.
   (B)   General terms.
      (1)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to three years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of three years subject to the
mutual written agreement of the city and provider.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes the provider’s non-exclusive use of the
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining, and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the right-of-way in which the city has an
actual interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any right-of-way
and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular location
or to a superior or preferred location within the right-of-way. Nothing herein
shall authorize the use of the city’s poles, towers, support structures, or
other structures outside of the right-of-way. All use of city poles, towers,
support structures, and other structures in the right-of-way shall require a
separate attachment agreement or be specifically provided for in the agreement
and shall include the payment of fees for such use.
      (3)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures, and towers in
the right-of-way in a safe condition, and in good order and repair.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider’s small
wireless facilities, or related poles, support structures, or towers, the
provider shall immediately notify the city of the nature of the emergency and
planned response to the emergency.
   (C)   Permit required. No person may construct, install, or maintain in the
right-of-way any wireless facilities without first receiving a permit from the
city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a wireless
provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the right-of-way
prior to obtaining a permit; provided, that the provider shall contact the city
prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as soon as reasonably
possible, but not later than 24 hours after commencing the emergency work. For
purposes of this division (C), an EMERGENCY means a circumstance in which
immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities is necessary to
restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or property.
   (D)   Permit application requirements. 
      (1)   The application shall be submitted by the wireless provider or its
duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
         (b)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with
respect to the filing of the application;
         (c)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (d)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower, or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached;
         (e)   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding
the proposed wireless communication facility;
         (f)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility
involves collocation on a pole, tower, or support structure, a structural
report prepared by a state-licensed professional engineer evidencing that the
pole, tower, or support structure will support the collocation (or that the
pole, tower, or support structure will be modified to meet structural
requirements) in accordance with applicable codes;
         (g)   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities,
accurate visual depictions or representations, if not included in the
construction drawings or photo simulations; and
         (h)   Any other submission requirements per published city policies or
regulations.
      (2)   All applications for small wireless facility installations in the
right-of-way shall be made to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Proprietary or confidential information in application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the State
Public Records Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicant may designate
portions of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain
proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or “confidential” by
clearly marking each portion of such materials accordingly, and the city shall
treat the information as proprietary and confidential, subject to the State
Public Records Law and the city’s determination that the applicant’s request
for confidential or proprietary treatment of application materials is
reasonable and in compliance with such law. The city shall not be required to
incur any costs to protect the application materials from disclosure, other
than the city’s routine procedures for complying with the State Public Records
Law.
   (F)   Routine maintenance and repair. A permit shall not be required for
routine maintenance and repair. The provider or other person performing the
routine maintenance and repair shall obtain any other permits required by
applicable laws and shall notify the city in writing at least 48 hours before
performing the routine maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Application fees and bonds. All applications pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by the requisite fees required by the city. Unless
otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by the city, a
performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable to the city
equal to at least 100% of the estimated cost of the work within the right-of-
way shall be provided before the applicant commences work.
   (H)   Effect of permit. A permit from the city authorizes an applicant to
undertake only the activities in the right-of-way specified in the application
and permit, and in accordance with this chapter and any conditions included in
the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of existing poles,
towers, support structures, or other structures in the right-of-way. A
permittee or wireless provider must obtain all necessary approvals from the
owner of any pole, tower, support structure, or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the right-of-way.
   (I)   Duration. Any permit for construction issued under this chapter shall
be valid for a period of one year, provided that the one-year period may be
extended for up to an additional one year upon approval by the City Council or
its designee upon the written request of the applicant (made prior to the end
of the initial one-year period) if the failure to complete construction is as a
result of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant.
   (J)   Multiple sites. An applicant may submit not more than ten sites in a
consolidated application for small wireless facilities, provided that the
proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed on the same type
of structure using similar equipment within the city.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
Statutory reference:
Nebraska public records law, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 154.05 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Approval process. Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way may be
approved through administrative review if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid and a permit
is obtained by the applicant or provider; and
      (2)   Each new, modified, or replacement pole, tower, or structure
installed in the right-of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required; and
      (3)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
    (B)   Design standards. Subject to division (A)(2) above, all poles and
small wireless facilities may be approved through administrative review if the
following design standards and recommended design guidelines (if adopted) are
met by the applicant:
      (1)   Height, shape, design, and color for poles and related equipment;
      (2)   Number, location, and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
      (3)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment;
      (4)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
      (5)   Structural integrity;
      (6)   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
      (7)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be used
only to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
      (8)   Lighting, marking and noise requirements;
      (9)   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements;
      (10)   Collocation analysis;
      (11)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary; and
      (12)   A written report will be prepared, signed, and sealed by a state-
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the Radio Frequency (“RF”) emissions limits established by the FCC. The
qualified employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with
the report.
   (C)   Additional guidelines and changes. The City Council may approve by
resolution additional recommended design guidelines. Further changes to those
recommended design guidelines are subject to the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA, or applicable city regulation.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC, and any other agency of the
local, state, or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building Codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local
building code standards.
    (D)   Public notice. For purposes of this chapter, any application for a
small wireless facility or pole, variance, exception, or appeal of a request
for a permit requires public notice to all adjoining property owners and all
owners of surrounding properties as may be required by the city.
   (E)   Equipment cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements.
   (F)   Site plan. A site plan is required. A scaled site plan shall clearly
indicate the location, type, height, and width of the proposed pole, on-site
land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings, or renderings of
the proposed pole and any other structures, topography, utility runs, and other
information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant owning a macro cell tower shall provide to the city an inventory of
the wireless provider’s existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers
or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the city or within one
mile of the border thereof, including specific information about the location
and tower height. The city may share such information with other applicants
applying for administrative review or other permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the city;
provided, however, that the city is not, by sharing such information, in any
way representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (H)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers and antennas shall be painted a color that best allows them
to blend into the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze,
browns, or other site-specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case
shall be evaluated individually.
   (I)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the city.
   (J)   Visual impact. All small wireless facilities in residential districts,
historic, and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with stealth
features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the
traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with
the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such wireless
communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed
location, design, visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and natural
features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
    (K)   Obstruction. Any new pole or support structure or equipment
associated with small wireless facilities shall not obstruct access to:
      (1)   Any existing above-ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities or public facilities;
      (2)   Any public infrastructure for traffic control, street light, or
public transportation purposes including, without limitation, any vehicular
traffic sign or signal or pedestrian traffic sign or signal;
      (3)   Any public transportation street furniture or other improvements at
any public transportation stop;
      (4)   Fire hydrants; or
      (5)   Any doors, gates, or other ingress and egress points to any
building appurtenant to the right-of-way.
   (L)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a small wireless
facility within the right-of-way or utility easement, the wireless provider
must notify all utilities located within such right-of-way or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the right-of-way or utility easement.
   (M)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider’s choice) underground, or in an
equipment cabinet that is:
      (1)   Designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using
architecturally compatible construction and colors; and
      (2)   Be located so as to be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the
proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities.
   (N)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise, or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the city.
   (O)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole, or banner
clips).
    (P)   Maps and as-builts. The wireless provider shall furnish to the city
paper and electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in the right-
of-way and as-builts after construction is completed.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.07 ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the city has determined, in
its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the city has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.08 GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance, or any other work in the right-
of-way, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, city guidelines, standards, and practices and any additional
commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic control. 
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the permittee shall erect
a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and provide appropriate
traffic control devices, signs, and lights to protect, warn, and guide the
public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The manner and use of
these devices shall be as described within a traffic control plan.
      (2)   The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic control
and safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is
restored to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the city.
   (C)   Non-interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the right-of-way, and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any right-of-way.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the right-of way,
the permittee shall comply with the State One Call Notification Act.
    (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The city and its
representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such further
information as they may require to ensure compliance with such requirements.
All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and
specifications for the work, or the requirements of this chapter, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The city may stop work in order
to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a small
wireless facility or pole, an applicant must obtain all other required
approvals from the city.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
Statutory reference:
One-Call Notification System Act, see Neb. RS 76-2301 et seq.
§ 154.09 LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless
communication facilities so as to interfere with the use of the right-of-way by
the city, by the general public, or by other persons authorized to use or be
present in or upon the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water, or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a right-of-way, the wireless provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense where technically
feasible. The city may, in its sole discretion, approve above-ground placement
of equipment cabinets, pedestals, and similar equipment. For facilities or
equipment such as small wireless facilities that cannot, by their nature,
operate unless located above-ground, the wireless provider and city shall work
to find a suitable location for such facilities or equipment.
   (C)   In performing any work in or affecting the right-of-way, the wireless
provider, and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   (D)   (1)   The wireless provider, or its agent or contractor, shall
restore, repair, and replace any portion of the right-of-way that is damaged or
disturbed by the provider’s wireless communication facilities or work in or
adjacent to the right-of-way as required in this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
      (2)   If the wireless provider fails to timely restore, repair, or
replace the right-of-way as required in this division (D), the city or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay the city’s costs and expenses
in completing the restoration, repair, or replacement including attorneys’ fees
and expenses.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.10 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, the wireless
provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the right-of-way, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the city has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change, or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any city improvement, the operations of the city in, under or
upon the right-of-way, or otherwise is in the public interest. The wireless
provider shall be responsible to the city for any damages the city may incur as
a result of the provider’s failure to remove or relocate its wireless
communication facilities.
   (B)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any wireless
communication facility located within the right-of-way of the city, as the city
may determine, in its sole discretion, to be necessary, appropriate, or useful
in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the city shall
notify the wireless provider and give the provider an opportunity to move its
own facilities prior to cutting or removing the wireless communication
facilities. In all cases the city shall notify the wireless provider after
cutting or removing the wireless communication facility as promptly as
reasonably possible.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall notify the city of abandonment of any
wireless communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is made;
however, in no case shall such notification be made later than 30 days prior to
abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the wireless provider shall
remove its wireless communication facility at the provider’s own expense,
unless the city determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless
communication facility may be abandoned in place. The wireless provider shall
remain solely responsible and liable for all of its wireless communication
facilities until they are removed from the right-of-way unless the city agrees
in writing to take ownership of the abandoned wireless communication
facilities.
   (D)   If the wireless provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter any of its
wireless communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless
communication facilities as required in this division (D), the city or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related
to such work, including any damages the city incurs arising from the delay and
attorneys’ fees and expenses.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.11 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The applicant and wireless provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold
harmless the city, its agents, officers, officials, and employees from any and
all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys’ fees, costs, and
expenses, whether for personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out
of or in connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or
wireless provider. In the event the city becomes aware of any actions or
claims, the city shall promptly notify the applicant and wireless provider and
reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is expressly agreed that the city shall
have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
the legal counsel providing the city’s defense, and the applicant and the
wireless provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the city for any costs,
expenses and attorneys’ fees directly and necessarily incurred by the city in
the course of the defense.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.12 INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a small wireless facility within the city
without having secured and at all times maintained in place insurance coverage
which conforms to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers compensation,
employers’ liability, and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
city;
   (B)   For a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the city and its
officers, officials, employees, and agents as additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and with a Best’s
rating of at least AMB-2; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days prior
written notice being given to the city and the insurance must be replaced by
the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original amounts.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.13 INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Although the city intends for city staff to review applications to the
extent feasible, the city may retain the services of an independent technical
consultant and attorney of its choice to provide technical and legal
evaluations of permit applications. The technical consultant and attorney shall
have recognized qualifications in the field of small wireless facilities.
   (B)   The review may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent technical
consultant and attorneys’ fees through a deposit, estimated by the city, within
ten business days of the city’s request. When the city requests such payment,
the application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application
processing time lines until the deposit is received. In the event that such
costs and fees do not exceed the deposit amount, the city shall refund any
unused portion within 30 days after the final permit is released or, if no
final permit is released, within 30 days after the city receives a written
request from the applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount,
then the applicant shall pay the difference to the city before the permit is
issued. The technical consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized
description of the services provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall
be limited to a reasonable approximation of costs and the costs shall be
reasonable.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.14 SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests. This division (A) implements § 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as interpreted by the FCC in its
Report and Order No. 14-153 and the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report
and Order released September 27, 2018, which requires a state or local
government to approve any Eligible Facilities Request for a modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not result in a substantial change to
the physical dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities
requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including, but not
limited to, application review, the 60-day shot clock, tolling and the deemed
granted remedy. Eligible facilities requests are subject to administrative
review by the city.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities–collocation on existing structures. This
division (B) implements the 60-day shot clock, which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 60-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling, and
available remedies.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities–construction (new structures). This division
(C) implements the 90-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 90-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling and available
remedies.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
(D) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including, but not
limited to, application review, the 90-day shot clock and tolling.
   (E)   New macro cell towers. This division (E) implements, in part, 47
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new macro cell tower applications including,
but not limited to, application review, the 150-day shot clock and tolling.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.15 RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver, or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of these regulations may request such, provided that the relief,
waiver, or exemption is contained in the submitted application. The burden of
proving the need for the requested relief, waiver, or exemption is solely on
the applicant. No such relief, waiver, or exemption shall be approved unless
the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted
the relief, waiver, or exemption will have no significant effect on the health,
safety, and welfare of the city, its residents and other service providers.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.16 OTHER APPROVALS.
   All other proposed installations within the right-of-way involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under this code.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.17 LAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations now or hereafter enacted.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter,
federal law, and the Act, federal law or the Act, as applicable, shall control.
Any other ordinance or part thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter is hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to $500 for each violation. Each day that a violation occurs or is
allowed to exist by the applicant or wireless provider constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 736, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 155: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
General Provisions
   
155.01 Statutory authorization
   
155.02 Findings of fact
   
155.03 Statement of purpose
   
155.04 Definitions
   
155.05 Adherence to regulations
   
155.06 Land to which chapter applies
   
155.07 Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
155.08 Compliance
   
155.09 Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.10 Interpretation
   
155.11 Warning and disclaimer of liability
General Administration
   
155.20 Establishment of zoning districts
   
155.21 Amendments
Floodplain Management Administration
   
155.30 Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
155.31 Permits required
   
155.32 Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
155.33 Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
155.34 Flood data required
   
155.35 Variance and appeals procedures
   
155.36 Conditions for variances
   
155.37 Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
155.40 General provisions
   
155.41 Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
155.42 Design and construction standards
   
155.43 Nonconforming use
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the
state. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood prone area. Therefore, the City Council ordains as follows.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of Lyons, Nebraska are subject to inundation that results in loss of life
and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Prior Code 11-407) (Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in § 155.02 by applying
the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction.
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it’s most reasonable application:
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the “Flood Insurance Rate Maps.”
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as “appurtenant structure.”
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for “structure.”
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading,
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   DRAINWAY. See definition for “watercourse.”
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of "flooding"). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and “special flood hazard area” are the same for use by
this chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Includes any building product capable of
withstanding direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining
significant damage. Prolonged contact is defined as at least 72 hours.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated June 5, 2020, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated June 5, 2020, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis; (ii)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes  substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage,"
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either (1) any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or (2) any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure."
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Prior Code 11-411) (Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.05 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R. and the Nebraska
Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the
Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.06 LAND TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels #31021C0150E dated
June 5, 2020, as Zone A and within the Zoning District established in § 155.20.
In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed except
upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted by the
Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
155.30-155.37 and §§ 155.40-155.42.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.07 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Adjustments will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the district
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
Board of Adjustments and to submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.08 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted
by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the city, or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the Floodplain Overlay District, as identified in the
Flood Insurance Study #31021CV000A dated June 5, 2020, and on accompanying FIRM
panels as established in §
155.05. The Floodplain Overlay District shall correspond to Flood Zone A.
Within this district, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and
those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.21 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be take until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least ten days
shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as the community’s local Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of this chapter. If the local
Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the City Clerk shall assume the
duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.31 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.32 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits.
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied.
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required.
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (E)   Coordinate with the Nebraska Department of Natural Resources to obtain
base flood elevation information when applicable and required.
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain.
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
   (J)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values.
   (K)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this chapter.
   (L)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.33 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.34 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.35 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments as established by City Council shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustments shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustments or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 23-168.02 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Adjustments
shall consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and,
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.36 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E) through (H) below have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (G)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (H)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (2) below shall apply:
         (a)   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that
will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
conditional letter of map revision process (as per 44 C.F.R., Chapter 1, Part
65.12) prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.41 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
155.33.
   (C)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building may
have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided that
the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated to or above one foot above the base flood
elevation or floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation
they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy
      (8)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
155.33.
      (9)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (10)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision;
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood; or
         (e)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(F)(1) below be elevated so that either;
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)(1)
below.
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
155.42(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (F)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this section do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of §
155.42 shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.42 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
§ 155.43 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 18 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 18 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-21-2024)
CHAPTER 156: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Comprehensive Plan; adopted
City Limits
   
156.15   City limits defined
   
156.16   Original plats
   
156.17   City planning, survey, and plat
   
156.18   Designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
156.19   Subdivisions and additions permitted
   
156.20   Additions; incorporated into city
Zoning Regulations
   
156.35   Regulations adopted
   
156.36   City planning; designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
“Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Lyons, Nebraska,” as prepared
by Hanna:Keelan Associates, P.C. has been adopted by ordinance by the City
Council on July 11, 2023. One copy of the adopted Plan shall be kept on file
with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public
during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 735, passed 7-2-2019; Ord. 737, passed 4-7-2020;
Ord. 738, passed 5-21-2020; Ord. 758, passed 7-11-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
CITY LIMITS
§ 156.15 CITY LIMITS DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official City Map and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the City Council or by
law, duly annexed to or made a part of this city or having been, by the act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to the city,
are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the city. Lawfully
constituted additions or changes in said city limits shall be indicated upon
said maps and plat by the City Engineer, after such addition or change has been
completed in accordance with the ordinances of this city and the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-426, 17-1002, and 17-1003
§ 156.16 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlets, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the city and not
vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the city, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed as
valid; and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlets as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds and not heretofore vacated; and all other parcels of ground included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said city and an
integral part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-426, 17-1002, and 17-1003
§ 156.17 CITY PLANNING, SURVEY, AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the city or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a plat
of such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to be
made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or parcel
of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers, and giving the dimensions
and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all streets and
alleys established therein.
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the city or of
any land within the area designated as the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002 shall designate explicitly the land so laid out and
particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other
grounds belonging to such addition. The lots shall be designated by numbers,
and streets, avenues, and other grounds, by names and numbers. Such plat shall
be acknowledged before some other officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public, and
have appended a survey made by some competent surveyor with a certificate
attached, certifying that he or she has accurately surveyed such addition and
that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons, and other
grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked. When such map or plat is
so made out, acknowledged, and certified, and has been approved by the City
Council, the same shall be filed and recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds and County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-3304 and 19-916
§ 156.18 DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purpose
of exercising the powers and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003 with
respect to subdivisions and platting and Neb. RS 19-2402 with respect to
extension of water or sanitary sewer service. The boundaries of the territory
so designated shall be as shown on the official zoning map, a copy of which is
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002
§ 156.19 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
city, or of any land within the area designated as the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002, may lay out such land into lots,
blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other grounds under the name of
__________ Addition to the city, and may subdivide, plat, or lay out any such
land upon conformance to and compliance with the conditions in this code and
state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
§ 156.20 ADDITIONS; INCORPORATED INTO CITY.
   All additions to the city laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the city shall remain a part of the city. All additions
laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be included within
the corporate limits and become a part of the city for all purposes whatsoever
at such time as the addition is approved as provided in Neb. RS 19-916. If the
City Council includes the addition within the corporate limits, the inhabitants
of such addition shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges and shall
be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 156.35 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the City of
Lyons, Nebraska, as prepared by Hanna:Keelan Associates, P.C., and published in
pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ord. 758, passed July 11, 2023. One copy of
the adopted Zoning Regulations shall be kept on file with the City Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 477, passed 5-12-1992; Ord. 497, passed 4-5-1994;
Ord. 626, passed 11-11-2002; Ord. 758, passed 7-11-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-926
§ 156.36 CITY PLANNING; DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the city
and outside of any other organized city or village is hereby designated as the
city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purpose of exercising the powers
and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003 with respect to subdivisions
and platting and Neb. RS 19-2402 with respect to extension of water or sanitary
sewer service. The boundaries of the territory so designated shall be as shown
on the official zoning map, a copy of which is on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezones Lots 6 and 8 in the Highway Addition from Highway
                     Commercial to Industrial; rezones Lots 9, 10, and the
734      4-2-2019    south 257 feet of Lot 11 in the Highway Addition from Low
                     Density Residential to Industrial; and rezones a tract of
                     land located in Sublots 2 through 7, Lot 32, Second
                     Highway Addition from Highway Commercial to Industrial
747      7-6-2021    Rezones Lot 1, Coffin Addition from LRD-1 Low Density
                     Residential to MDR-1 Medium Density Residential District
773      9-10-2024   Rezones Lot 9, Block 5, Robley Addition from C-2 General
                     and Highway Commercial to I-1 Industrial
                    
 
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
748      12-7-2021   Closes and vacates Eighth Avenue from Everett Street north
                     to the city limits
775      11-12-2024  Vacates real estate described as Lots 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10,
                     and 11, Block 9, original City of Lyons
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites                Code Section
9-601 et seq.                35.01
9-646                        113.02
10-101 through 10-143        35.12
10-606 through 10-612        35.12
Ch. 11, Art. 1               32.31
11-101                       33.26
11-104                       33.25
11-105                       33.25
11-109                       33.25
11-110                       33.25
11-111                       33.25
11-112                       33.25
11-113                       33.25
11-114                       33.25
11-115                       33.25
11-116                       33.25
11-117                       33.25
11-118                       33.25
13-501 et seq.               35.3;
                             35.34
13-503                       35.01
13-504                       35.28
13-505                       35.28
13-506                       35.29
13-507                       35.29
13-508                       35.30
13-509                       35.30
13-509.01                    35.27
13-509.02                    35.27
13-510                       35.33
13-511                       35.34
                             35.29;
13-518 through 13-522        35.30;
                             35.34
13-606                       35.02
13-609                       35.13
13-801 et seq.               32.32
13-903                       35.05
13-1802                      32.32
13-2501 et seq.              32.32
Ch. 14, Art. 4               95.64
14-813                       152.044
Ch. 15, Art. 9               95.64
16-318(3)                    31.06
16-691.01                    35.11
16-714 to 16-716             35.10
Ch. 16, Art. 9               95.64
17-102                       30.15
17-103                       30.15
17-104                       30.15;
                             30.18
17-105                       33.13
17-106                       33.14
                             30.01;
                             30.03;
17-107                       31.01;
                             31.09;
                             32.33
17-108                       33.40;
                             33.42
                             30.15;
17-108.02                    30.20;
                             31.02;
                             31.03; 32.42
17-110                       30.02
17-111                       30.02
17-112                       30.02
17-113                       30.02
17-114                       30.02
17-117                       30.02
17-118                       32.32
17-121                       32.04
17-138                       93.03
17-142                       131.16;
                             150.30
17-148                       30.16
17-149.01                    51.15
17-405 through 17-426        156.15;
                             156.16
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       95.25
17-503.01                    95.25
17-505                       10.99;
                             30.45
17-509                       95.02;
                             95.66
17-509 to 17-521             95.42
17-510                       95.63
17-510 to 17-512             95.02
17-511                       95.62;
                             95.65
17-512                       95.66
17-513 to 17-524             95.02
17-522                       95.42
17-524                       95.42;
                             95.62
17-525                       110.01
                             93.01;
                             93.20;
17-526                       93.23;
                             93.24;
                             93.27;
                             93.28
17-531                       52.01
17-534                       52.01
                             52.03;
                             52.05;
17-537                       52.06;
                             52.08;
                             52.09
17-538                       50.05
17-539                       52.16
17-540                       35.11;
                             52.32
17-541                       31.10
                             52.30;
17-542                       52.31;
                             52.33;
                             52.34
17-547                       93.01
17-548                       93.26
17-549                       92.10;
                             92.12
17-550                       92.04—
                             92.08
                             94.07;
17-555                       95.04;
                             131.16;
                             131.17
                             92.09;
17-556                       92.10;
                             132.60
                             95.05;
17-557                       95.60;
                             131.16
17-557.01                    95.05
17-558                       95.55;
                             95.66
17-559                       95.55;
                             95.66
17-563                       132.17
17-567                       95.03
17-568.01                    35.03
17-568.02                    35.03
17-574                       51.01; 51.15
17-602                       34.03
                             31.01;
17-604                       33.25;
                             33.40
17-605                       31.05
17-606                       31.06
17-606(2)                    31.06
17-607                       35.09
17-608                       35.11
17-609                       35.11
17-610                       31.07
17-611                       32.42;
                             33.40
17-612                       32.42;
                             33.40
                             30.48;
17-613                       30.50;
                             30.51;
                             35.03
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.48;
                             30.49;
                             30.52
17-616                       30.49
17-701                       35.25
17-702                       35.08;
                             35.34
17-703                       35.06
17-706                       35.31
17-708                       35.04
17-709                       35.04
17-710                       35.07
17-711                       35.04
17-714                       35.05
17-715                       35.05
17-720                       35.10
17-803                       35.11
                             54.03—
                             54.06;
                             54.08;
17-902                       54.09;
                             54.11;
                             54.12;
                             54.15
17-902 through 17-904        54.01
17-906                       54.01
17-908                       53.01
17-909                       53.01;
                             54.01
17-925.01                    50.05;
                             51.01
17-948                       90.01;
                             90.40
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
                             90.01;
17-949                       90.41;
                             90.42
17-951                       90.01;
                             90.40
17-952                       90.01;
                             90.40
                             90.56;
17-953                       90.57;
                             95.26
17-953 through 17-955        90.55
17-953.01                    95.26
17-954                       95.26
Ch. 17, Art. 10              95.64
17-1001                      150.01—
                             150.04
                             156.15—
17-1002                      156.19;
                             156.36
                             156.15;
17-1003                      156.16;
                             156.18;
                             156.36
                             92.01;
                             150.01—
18-132                       150.04;
                             156.01;
                             156.35
18-305 through 18-312        33.41
18-412.01                    35.03
18-503                       50.05
18-1001 through 18-1006      95.25
18-1216                      35.06
18-1701                      31.05
                             10.99;
                             91.02—
18-1720                      91.04;
                             94.14;
                             132.15
18-1722                      10.99;
                             91.03
18-1736                      72.35;
                             72.36
                             72.36;
18-1737                      72.37;
                             72.43
18-1738                      72.44
18-1738.01                   72.44
18-1741.01                   72.35;
                             72.44
18-1741.04                   72.44
18-1741.06                   72.44
18-1748                      95.56
18-1751                      95.02;
                             95.10
18-1755                      95.25;
                             95.27
18-1756                      35.03
18-1801 through 18-1805      35.12
18-2102.01                   32.02
18-2715                      32.02
18-2801                      35.25;
                             35.28
18-2804                      35.02
18-3304                      156.17
19-613                       30.15
19-710                       91.05
19-901                       32.03
19-901 et seq.               32.03
19-901 to 19-914             32.03
19-901 to 19-915             32.03
19-903                       32.02
19-903 to 19-904.01          32.03
19-907                       32.03
19-908                       32.03
19-909                       32.03
19-910                       32.03
19-912                       32.03,
                             155.35
19-912.01                    32.03
                             32.02;
19-916                       156.17;
                             156.19;
                             156.20
19-925 through 19-933        32.02;
                             95.64
19-926                       32.02;
                             156.35
19-927                       32.02
19-928                       32.02
19-929                       32.02
19-929(3)                    32.03
19-930 to 19-933             32.02
19-1101                      31.06
19-1102                      31.05
19-1103                      31.05;
                             31.06
19-1301                      35.08
19-1302                      35.08
19-1303                      35.08
19-1304                      35.08
19-1305                      52.01
19-2101 through 19-2106      55.01
19-2401                      95.02
19-2402                      156.18;
                             156.36
19-2408 to 19-2415           95.02
19-2417 through 19-2419      95.32
19-2427                      95.10
                             95.02;
19-2428 through 19-2431      95.10;
                             95.64
19-2701                      52.03;
                             54.03
19-2702                      52.34
19-2902                      35.02
19-2903                      35.02
19-2904                      35.02
19-2905                      35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909      35.02
19-3701                      30.51
19-4603                      53.26
19-4604 through 19-4607      53.27
19-4608                      53.28
19-4609                      53.29
19-4610                      53.30
19-4611                      53.30
19-4612                      53.31
19-4613                      53.32
19-4614                      53.33
19-4615                      53.34
19-4616                      53.35
19-4617                      53.36
19-4618                      53.37
19-4619                      53.38
19-4620                      53.39
19-4621                      53.40
19-4622                      53.41
19-4623                      53.42
Ch. 23, Art. 1               95.64
23-114.02                    32.03
23-122                       31.05
23-168.02                    155.35
25-505.01                    34.10
25-1801                      50.04
25-21,275                    50.04
25-21,276                    50.04
25-21,277                    50.04
25-21,278                    50.04
Ch. 28, Art. 3               111.20
Ch. 28, Art. 4               111.20
Ch. 28, Art. 7               111.20
Ch. 28, Art. 8               111.20
Ch. 28, Art. 10 through 12   111.20
28-431                       132.45
28-512                       130.04
28-514                       130.04
28-519                       130.01
28-523                       90.02;
                             132.16
28-903                       131.01
28-907                       131.02
28-1004                      93.04
28-1005                      93.04
28-1008                      93.03
28-1009                      93.03;
                             93.99
28-1012                      93.03
28-1013                      93.03
28-1246                      132.01
28-1249                      132.01
28-1322                      131.18
28-1465                      32.32
28-1466                      32.32
28-1472                      32.32
29-215                       32.32
29-422 to 29-429             93.03
29-4001 et seq.              132.02
29-4001.01                   132.02
29-4003                      132.02
29-4015                      132.02
31-1001 to 31-1023           155.01
32-101                       30.15
                             30.01;
32-101 et seq.               34.01;
                             34.06;
                             35.08
32-109                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-110                       34.03
32-115                       34.03
32-404                       34.01;
                             34.05
32-405                       34.04;
                             34.10
32-519                       34.04
32-533                       30.01;
                             30.15
32-552                       30.15
32-553                       30.15
32-554                       30.15
32-556                       34.01
32-557                       30.03;
                             34.06
32-559                       34.04
32-560                       30.03;
                             30.19
32-560 through 32-572        30.03;
                             30.19
32-561                       30.03;
                             30.19
32-562                       34.10
32-563                       30.20
32-567 to 32-570             34.10
32-568                       30.03;
                             30.19
32-569                       30.19
32-574                       34.10
32-603                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-604                       30.02;
                             30.15
32-606                       34.07
32-607                       34.07
32-608                       34.08;
                             34.09
32-615                       34.09
32-616                       34.09
32-617                       34.09
32-618                       34.09
32-621                       34.09
32-622                       34.07
32-625                       34.07
32-625(2)                    34.09
32-627                       34.07;
                             34.09
32-628                       34.09;
                             95.25
32-629                       34.09;
                             34.10
32-630                       34.09;
                             34.10
32-710                       34.09
32-802                       34.02
32-952 through 32-959        34.04
32-1202                      34.04
32-1301                      34.10
32-1302                      34.10
32-1303                      34.10
32-1304                      34.10
32-1305                      34.10
32-1306                      34.10
32-1307                      34.10
                             30.03;
32-1308                      30.19;
                             34.10
32-1309                      34.10
33-141                       31.05
35-106                       110.05
37-1254.01                   32.32
37-1254.02                   32.32
Ch. 39                       73.99
39-301                       131.16
39-302                       131.16
39-602                       71.10
39-6,189                     70.03
39-2512                      31.09
39-102                       154.02
44-4301 et seq.              33.55
44-4303                      33.55
44-4304                      33.55
45-103                       53.27;
                             53.29
46-1212                      95.28
46-1601 to 46-1670           155.04
48-1503                      35.03
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      33.41
49-1425                      33.41
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04                   33.41
49-14,102                    33.41
49-14,103.01                 33.41
49-14,103.02                 33.41
49-14,103.03                 33.41
49-14,103.04                 33.41
49-14,103.05                 33.41
49-14,103.06                 33.41
51-201                       90.15
51-201 to 51-219             32.01;
                             90.16
51-201.01                    90.20
51-202                       32.01
51-204                       32.01
51-205                       90.16
51-206                       90.19
51-207                       90.16
51-209                       90.15
51-210                       90.17
                             90.16;
51-211                       90.20;
                             90.21
51-212                       90.20
51-213                       90.22
51-214                       90.23
51-215                       35.08;
                             90.24
51-216                       35.08;
                             90.18
52-601.01 to 52-605          132.45
53-101 et seq.               111.01
53-116.01                    111.22
53-118                       111.40
53-123.04(3)                 132.30
53-123.11(1)(c)              132.30
53-123.12                    111.21
                             111.17;
53-124                       111.21;
                             111.24
53-124.01                    111.21
53-124.12                    111.24
53-124.17                    111.21
53-125                       111.20
53-129                       111.21
53-131                       111.21
53-131 through 53-134        111.16
53-132                       111.17;
                             111.21
53-133                       111.21
                             111.17;
53-134                       111.18;
                             111.21
53-134.03                    111.21;
                             111.40
53-134.04                    111.28
53-135                       111.23
53-135.01                    111.21;
                             111.23
53-148                       111.25
                             111.15;
53-168.06                    111.17;
                             111.19
53-179                       111.41
53-180                       111.02
53-183                       111.42
53-184                       111.43
53-186                       111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-1,101                     111.26
53-1,102                     111.27
53-1,115                     111.28
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       93.23
54-603                       93.20
54-603(3)                    93.20
54-605                       93.21
54-606                       93.23
54-607                       93.01
54-907 through 54-912        93.05
54-911                       93.05
54-912                       93.05
55-133                       70.01
56-602                       93.23
Ch. 60                       73.99
60-169                       132.45
Ch. 60, Art. 3               70.20;
                             73.20
60-301                       132.45
60-320                       132.45
60-376                       132.45;
                             132.46
60-399                       70.20
60-3,113.06                  72.36;
                             72.37
Ch. 60, Art. 4               70.20
60-4,126                     73.21
60-4,163                     32.32
60-4,164                     32.32
60-4,182                     71.03—
                             71.05
60-505                       73.25
60-601 et seq.               Ch. 70;
                             70.01
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01;
                             73.21
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01;
                             70.08
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
60-678                       70.02
                             70.06;
                             70.23;
60-680                       72.01—
                             72.03;
                             72.09
60-682.01                    70.08
60-696                       71.12
60-697                       71.12
60-6,118                     70.01;
                             70.08
60-6,119                     70.07
60-6,127                     70.09
60-6,129                     130.05
60-6,131                     70.05
60-6,134.01                  70.08;
                             71.11
60-6,137                     70.21
60-6,159                     70.04
60-6,165                     72.13
60-6,167                     72,01;
                             72.02
60-6,185                     71.01
60-6,192                     71.09
60-6,196                     32.32
60-6,196(1)                  71.02
60-6,197                     32.32
60-6,197(1)                  71.02
60-6,197(2)                  71.02
60-6,197(3)                  71.02
60-6,197(4)                  71.02
60-6,201                     71.02
60-6,203                     71.02
60-6,205 to 60-6,208         71.02
60-6,211.01                  32.32
60-6,211.02                  32.32
60-6,211.08                  132.30
60-6,212                     71.04
60-6,213 through 60-6,218    71.03
60-6,243                     70.22
60-6,267                     71.10
60-6,276                     71.08
60-6,315                     73.01
60-6,317                     73.01
60-6,318                     73.01
60-6,335                     73.04
60-6,337                     73.04
60-6,347                     73.02
60-6,352                     73.02
60-6,355                     73.20;
                             73.21
60-6,356                     73.21
60-6,358                     73.22
60-6,361                     73.25
60-6,362                     73.99
60-1901                      132.45
60-1902                      132.45
60-1903                      132.45
60-1903.01                   132.45
60-1903.02                   132.45
60-1904                      132.45
60-1905                      132.45
60-1906                      132.45
60-1907                      132.45
60-1908                      132.45
60-1909                      132.45
60-1911                      132.45
60-2410                      132.45
60-2805                      73.23
60-2806                      73.24
70-655                       154.03
70-1601 to 70-1615           50.03
70-1602 et seq.              50.02
70-2001 to 70-2005           54.18
71-423                       111.04
71-1536                      32.17
71-1552                      32.15;
                             32.18
71-1572 through 71-15,168    32.15;
                             32.16
71-1576                      32.16
71-1908 et seq.              132.02
71-4406                      93.29
71-4408                      93.26
71-4412                      93.20
71-4603                      132.45
72-1237 to 72-1269           53.36
72-1260 et seq.              35.11
72-1269 et seq.              35.11
73-101 et seq.               35.03
76-704 through 76-724        90.17
76-1422 to 76-1428           152.003
76-2301 et seq.              154.08
77-1359                      95.64
77-1601                      35.46
77-1606                      35.46
77-1632                      35.46
77-1702                      35.13
77-2201                      31.06
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.06
77-2202                      31.06
77-2209                      31.06
77-2210                      31.06
77-2212                      31.06
77-2337                      35.08
77-2341                      35.11
77-2362                      35.09
77-2363                      35.09
77-2364                      35.09
77-2365.01                   35.09;
                             35.10
77-2366                      35.09;
                             35.10
77-2386                      35.09
                             35.45;
77-3442                      90.01;
                             90.15
77-3443                      90.15
77-3444                      34.04
Ch. 79                       132.02
81-145 through 81-162        35.03
81-201                       93.03
81-502                       92.01
81-520.01                    92.10;
                             92.11
81-829.51                    35.34
81-829.65                    32.32
81-847                       152.02
81-1438                      31.09
81-1439 through 81-1446      31.09
81-1444                      32.31
81-3401 et seq.              150.47
81-3423                      95.28
81-3445                      95.28
81-3449                      95.28
81-3453                      95.28
84-712 et seq.               154.04
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.05;
                             31.06
84-712(2)                    31.05
84-1407 et seq.              33.07;
                             33.08
84-1408                      33.02
84-1409(1)                   33.01
84-1409(2)                   33.01
84-1410                      33.06;
                             33.07
84-1411                      33.02—
                             33.05
84-1411(7)                   33.02
84-1412                      33.08
86-329 through 86-331        50.03
86-704                       154.01
86-1201 et seq.              154.01;
                             154.02
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-104              30.18
1-107              30.20
1-203              31.04
1-212              31.10
1-213              31.11
1-214              31.12
1-401              11.01
1-501              33.01
1-502              33.01
1-511              33.09
1-514              33.12
1-515              33.13
1-516              33.14
1-601              30.45
1-606              30.49
1-607              30.50
1-608              30.50
1-609              30.51
1-610              30.52
1-801              35.25
1-807              35.45
1-821              35.46
1-824              35.47
1-903              33.42
1-1101             33.55
1-1201             10.99
2-201              32.01
2-205              32.15
2-206              32.16
2-207              32.17
2-208              32.18
3-101              52.01
3-102              52.02
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.04
3-105              52.30
3-106              52.31
3-107              52.32
3-108              52.33
3-109              52.34
3-110              52.35
3-111              52.05
3-112              52.06
3-113              52.07
3-114              52.08
3-115              52.09
3-116              52.10
3-117              52.11
3-118              52.12
3-119              52.50
3-120              52.51
3-121              52.52
3-122              52.53
3-123              52.54
3-124              52.55
3-125              52.56
3-126              52.57
3-127              52.58
3-128              52.59
3-129              52.60
3-130              52.99
3-131              52.61
3-132              52.13
3-133              52.14
3-134              52.15;
                   52.99
3-201              51.01
3-202              51.02
3-203              51.03
3-204              51.04
3-205              51.05
3-206              51.06
3-207              51.07
3-208              51.08
3-209              51.09
3-210              51.10
3-211              51.11
3-212              51.12
3-213              51.13
3-214              51.99
3-302              32.31
3-303              32.33
3-501              90.40
3-502              90.41
3-503              90.42
3-504              90.43
3-701              55.01
3-702              55.02
3-801              90.55
3-802              90.56
3-803              90.57
3-901              54.01
3-902              54.02
3-903              54.03
3-904              54.04
3-905              54.05
3-906              54.06
3-907              54.07
3-908              54.08
3-909              54.09
3-910              54.10
3-911              54.11
3-912              54.12
3-913              54.13
3-914              54.14
3-915              54.15
3-916              54.16
3-917              54.17
3-918              54.18
3-1001             53.01
3-1003             53.02
3-1004             53.03
3-1005             53.04
3-1006             53.05
3-1007             53.06
3-1008             53.07
3-1009             53.08
3-1010             53.09
3-1011             53.10
3-1012             53.11
3-1013             53.12
3-1014             53.13
3-1101             50.01
3-1102             50.02
3-1103.01          50.03
3-1104             50.05
3-1106             50.06
3-1201             53.25
3-1202             53.26
3-1203             53.27
3-1204             53.27
3-1205             53.27
3-1206             53.27
3-1207             53.28
3-1208             53.29
3-1209             53.30
3-1210             53.30
3-1211             53.31
3-1212             53.32
3-1213             53.33
3-1214             53.34
3-1215             53.35
3-1216             53.36
3-1217             53.37
3-1218             53.38
3-1219             53.39
3-1220             53.40
3-1221             53.41
3-1222             53.42
3-1223             53.43
4-202              91.02
4-203              91.03
4-204              91.04
4-205              91.05
5-102              70.03
5-107              70.04
5-108              70.05
5-109              70.06
5-112              70.08
5-202              130.05
5-203              70.09
5-205              Ch. 74, Sched. I
5-206              71.02
5-207              71.03
5-208              71.03
5-209              71.04
5-210              71.05
5-211              71.06
5-212              71.07
5-213              71.08
5-214              71.09
5-215              71.10
5-216              71.11
5-217              71.12
5-301              70.20
5-302              70.21
5-303              70.22
5-401              73.01
5-402              73.02
5-403              73.03
5-404              73.04
5-405              73.05
5-406              73.06
5-501              72.01
5-502              72.02
5-503              72.03
5-507              Ch. 75, Sched. I
5-508              72.06
5-509              72.07
5-511              72.09
5-514              72.12
5-516              Ch. 75, Sched. I
5-519              70.23
5-520              72.14
5-601              73.20
5-602              73.21
5-604              73.22
5-605              73.23
5-606              73.24
5-607              73.25
5-608              73.99
5-609              73.26
6-106              93.25
6-107              93.26
6-108              93.27
6-109              93.28
6-114              93.29
6-115              93.30
6-208              93.99
6-209              93.04
6-210              93.04
6-211              93.04
6-304              130.02
6-305              130.03
6-306              130.04
6-313              132.01
6-314              132.01
6-315              131.19
6-318              132.16
6-325              131.20
6-326              131.20
6-329              131.15
6-330              132.31
6-331              131.21
6-332              132.18
6-333              132.02;
                   132.99
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.07
7-108              92.08
7-109              92.09
7-110              92.10
7-111              92.11
7-201              92.12
8-105              95.09
8-106              95.26
8-107              95.10
8-108              95.10
8-109              95.11
8-111              95.27
8-206              95.33
8-306              95.61
8-307              95.62
8-309              95.63
8-310              95.64
8-311              95.65
8-312              95.65
8-313              95.65
8-315              95.66
8-316              95.66
8-317              95.67
8-318              95.68
8-401              94.01
8-402              94.30
8-403              94.31
8-404              94.32
8-405              94.33
8-406              94.34
8-407              94.02
8-408              94.03
8-409              94.03
8-410              94.03
8-411              94.03
8-412              94.04
8-413              94.05
8-414              94.06
8-416              94.08
8-417              94.09
8-418              94.10
8-419              94.11
8-420              94.12
8-421              94.13
8-422              94.14
8-423              94.15
8-424              94.16
8-425              94.16
8-426              94.17
8-427              94.18
8-428              94.19
9-101              150.45
9-103              150.47
9-201              150.15
9-203              150.17
9-501              150.01
9-601              150.02
9-701              150.03
9-801              150.04
9-901              153.01
9-902              153.01
9-903              153.02
9-904              153.03
9-905              153.15
9-906              153.30
9-907              153.31
9-908              153.32
9-909              153.16
9-910              153.99
9-1101             151.01
9-1102             151.02
9-1103             151.03
9-1104             151.04
9-1105             151.05
9-1106             151.20
9-1108             151.22
9-1110             151.24
9-1201             152.001
9-1202             152.999
9-1203             152.002
9-1204             152.003
9-1205             152.004
9-1206             152.020
9-1207             152.021
9-1208             152.022
9-1209             152.023
9-1210             152.024
9-1211             152.024
9-1212             152.024
9-1213             152.024
9-1214             152.024
9-1215             152.025
9-1216             152.025
9-1217             152.005
9-1218             152.040
9-1219             152.041
9-1220             152.042
9-1221             152.043
9-1222             152.044
9-1223             152.055
9-1224             152.056
9-1225             152.057
9-1226             152.058
9-1227             152.059
9-1228             152.070
9-1229             152.071
9-1230             152.072
9-1231             152.999
9-1232             152.085
9-1233             152.086
9-1234             152.087
9-1235             152.088
9-1236             152.089
9-1237             152.090
9-1238             152.091
9-1239             152.092
9-1240             152.093
9-1241             152.105
9-1242             152.106
9-1243             152.106
9-1244             152.107
9-1245             152.108
9-1246             152.109
9-1247             152.109
9-1248             152.109
9-1249             152.110
9-1250             152.111
9-1251             152.112
9-1252             152.125
9-1253             152.126
9-1254             152.127
9-1255             152.128
9-1256             152.129
9-1257             152.130
9-1258             152.131
9-1259             152.132
9-1260             152.133
9-1261             152.145
9-1262             152.146
9-1263             152.147
9-1264             152.148
9-1265             152.149
9-1266             152.150
9-1267             152.151
9-1268             152.165
9-1269             152.166
9-1270             152.167
9-1271             152.168
9-1272             152.169
9-1273             152.170
9-1274             152.171
9-1275             152.185
9-1276             152.186
9-1277             152.187
9-1278             152.188
9-1279             152.189
9-1280             152.190
9-1281             152.191
10-102             111.15
10-105             111.16
10-114             111.43
10-115             111.41
10-118             111.45
10-124             111.17
10-125             111.18
10-301             110.01
10-302             110.05
10-401             113.01;
                   113.02
11-101             156.15
11-102             156.16
11-103             156.17
11-104             156.18
11-105             156.19
11-106             156.20
11-201             156.01
11-301             156.35
11-302             156.36
11-407             155.02
11-411             155.04
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Passed Date  Code Section
2023-19  10-10-2023     32.05
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
458      - -         150.03
610      - -         35.46
613      - -         35.47
655      - -         95.67
668      - -         51.11
358      10-23-1975  54.09
359      10-23-1975  53.08
361      3-2-1976    Ch. 74, Sched. I
364      6-8-1976    52.33
367      10-5-1976   54.09
368      10-5-1976   53.08
369      10-5-1976   54.06
372      11-7-1978   30.18;
                     33.12
377      7-10-1979   73.03
                     50.01;
385      11-10-1980  52.03;
                     52.04
392      2-8-1983    53.04;
                     53.05
393      8-1-1983    Ch. 74, Sched. I
400      3-5-1985    54.09
401      4-2-1985    91.03
419      10-7-1985   95.66
407      11-5-1985   33.13;
                     33.14
410      11-5-1985   71.10
411      11-5-1985   91.05
415      10-7-1986   111.17
416      10-7-1986   111.18
418      10-7-1986   95.66
421      10-7-1986   32.31
422      10-7-1986   30.50
425      5-5-1987    53.08
426      7-7-1987    Ch. 74, Sched. I
429      9-15-1987   95.10
431      9-15-1987   95.10
432      9-15-1987   95.64
438      10-6-1987   53.43
430      1-5-1988    53.08
440      1-5-1988    53.08
442      6-7-1988    52.12
446      6-7-1988    90.43
451      12-5-1989   55.02
452      12-5-1989   95.11
455      7-2-1990    31.12
463      2-5-1991    93.04
464      2-5-1991    93.99
465      2-5-1991    71.10
468      2-5-1991    30.20
470      5-7-1991    95.11
474      1-7-1992    150.15
477      5-12-1992   156.35
478      6-2-1992    150.15;
                     150.45
485      8-3-1993    50.01
486      8-24-1993   70.20
489      8-24-1993   33.01
491      9-7-1993    111.41
492      9-7-1993    111.43
497      4-5-1994    156.35
498      5-3-1994    131.15
523      4-4-1995    50.05
526      10-3-1995   92.10
527      10-3-1995   52.33
528      10-3-1995   51.10
531      1-3-1996    30.49
535      9-10-1996   53.08
538      12-3-1996   35.25
544      5-6-1997    95.65
545      5-6-1997    95.26
547      5-6-1997    33.13
548      9-2-1997    92.11
551      9-2-1997    50.03
554      11-4-1997   33.13
555      11-4-1997   95.27
556      11-4-1997   132.16
559      2-3-1998    150.17
                     152.001—
                     152.005;
                     152.020—
                     152.025;
                     152.040—
                     152.044;
                     152.055—
                     152.059;
                     152.070—
                     152.072;
                     152.085—
560      2-12-1998   152.093;
                     152.105—
                     152.112;
                     152.125—
                     152.133;
                     152.145—
                     152.151;
                     152.165—
                     152.171;
                     152.185—
                     152.191;
                     152.999
                     151.01—
563      7-7-1998    151.05;
                     151.22;
                     151.24
564      9-15-1998   54.17
565      12-8-1998   51.05
568      1-5-1999    30.45
569      1-5-1999    30.49
570      1-5-1999    30.51
571      1-5-1999    30.52
578      2-2-1999    50.01
583      6-3-1999    35.45
584      6-3-1999    51.01
600      11-2-1999   131.21
614      2-6-2001    33.13
616      11-6-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. II
617      1-8-2002    Ch. 75, Sched. II
618      2-7-2002    52.33
619      2-7-2002    51.10
620      2-7-2002    51.10
621      5-7-2002    Ch. 74, Sched. I
622      5-7-2002    73.06
623      7-9-2002    52.14
624      8-6-2002    54.09
626      11-11-2002  156.35
628      3-4-2003    Ch. 75, Sched. II
630      4-1-2003    52.99
641      12-4-2003   54.09
642      12-4-2003   52.33
643      12-4-2003   51.10
644      12-4-2003   51.11
646      7-6-2004    132.01
649      10-5-2004   54.09
650      10-5-2004   52.33
651      3-1-2005    70.23
653      4-3-2005    52.13
663      6-5-2008    50.01
666      7-1-2008    132.18
667      7-1-2008    52.33
669      7-15-2008   50.01
670      9-2-2008    52.34
671      9-2-2008    51.12
673      9-2-2008    53.09
675      5-5-2009    51.11
676      5-5-2009    Ch. 75, Sched. II
687      8-4-2009    72.14
679      9-1-2009    93.30
683      3-4-2010    73.21
684      3-4-2010    95.68
688      9-7-2010    32.01
690      12-7-2010   54.09
693      7-5-2011    50.06
697      10-2-2012   73.21
707      10-8-2013   91.02
709      2-4-2014    113.01;
                     113.02
710      3-4-2014    132.18
711      4-1-2014    52.33
712      4-1-2014    51.11
714      5-5-2014    150.02
720      8-4-2015    50.01
721      8-4-2015    50.01
722      10-6-2015   73.21
724      2-16-2016   54.18
727      9-6-2016    132.02;
                     132.99
734      4-2-2019    TSO Table I
735      7-2-2019    156.01
                     154.01—
736      9-3-2019    154.17;
                     154.99
737      4-7-2020    156.01
738      5-21-2020   156.01
740      6-2-2020    72.07
742      6-2-2020    72.12;
                     72.99
743      9-1-2020    73.21;
                     73.99
744      11-5-2020   52.16
745      11-5-2020   51.14
747      7-6-2021    TSO Table I
748      12-7-2021   TSO Table II
752      12-6-2022   31.11
753      1-10-2023   33.42
754      3-7-2023    93.45—
                     93.53
755      5-2-2023    55.15—
                     55.17
756      5-2-2023    33.42
757      7-11-2023   33.13
758      7-11-2023   156.01;
                     156.35
760      9-12-2023   52.33
761      9-12-2023   51.11
762      9-12-2023   54.09
763      11-14-023   35.14
764      1-9-2024    54.09
765      1-9-2024    32.42
766      5-21-2024   Adopting Ordinance
767      5-21-2024   35.47
                     155.01—
                     155.11,
                     155.20,
770      5-21-2024   155.21,
                     155.30—
                     155.37,
                     155.40—
                     155.43
                     151.05;
                     151.20;
771      6-11-2024   151.24;
                     151.40—
                     151.43
772      6-11-2024   35.14
773      9-10-2024   TSO Table I
774      9-10-2024   Ch. 74, Sched. I
775      11-12-2024  TSO Table II
                    
 
