CITY OF McCOOK, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-3101, passed 4-7-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-2855
AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE ALL CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF MCCOOK, NEBRASKA,
TO REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING, AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MCCOOK,
NEBRASKA:
   SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the City of McCook, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of the City of McCook, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles:
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Government Officials
         31.   City Policies
         32.   Ordinances
         33.   Finances
         34.   Purchasing Regulations
         35.   City Organizations
         36.   Taxation
         37.   Civil Service
         38.   Fee Schedule
   TITLE V: DEPARTMENTS
         50.   Municipal Utilities
         51.   Sewer Regulations
         52.   Water
         53.   Police and Fire Departments
         54.   City Parks and Property
         55.   Solid Waste
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Traffic Rules
         72.   Parking and Stopping
         73.   Traffic Schedules
         74.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Animals
         91.   Fire Prevention; Fireworks; Poisonous or Flammable Gas;
Explosives
         92.   Fair Housing
         93.   Unlicensed Vehicles
         94.   Streets and Sidewalks
         95.   Nuisance; Health and Sanitation
         96.   Trees and Shrubs
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Licensing of Construction Contractors
         111.   Alcoholic Beverages
         112.   Itinerant Merchants, Peddlers and Solicitors
         113.   Trailer Camps and Camping Areas
         114.   Telephone Companies
         115.   Garbage Collection
         116.   Oil and Natural Gas
         117.   Lottery Regulations
         118.   Alarm Systems
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   General Offenses
         131.   Curfew
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Codes and Regulations
         151.   Zoning
         152.   Subdivisions
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         I.   Franchise Agreements
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   SECTION 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   SECTION 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
         1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
         2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
         3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
         4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
         5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
         6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
         7.   Appropriating money.
         8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
         9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   SECTION 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   SECTION 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
   Passed and approved this 16th day of May, 2011.
   -s- Dennis Berry, Mayor
ATTEST:
-s- Lea Ann Doak, City Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the "McCook Code of
Ordinances" and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. McCook, Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The McCook City Council.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Red Willow County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 49-801(16)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day is a Saturday or Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 16-247
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this city code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter", "this subchapter", "this section" and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to "§§       through      " (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as "§      " or "§§       through      " which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 16-246
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
         
31.   CITY POLICIES
         
32.   ORDINANCES
         
33.   FINANCES
         
34.   PURCHASING REGULATIONS
         
35.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
         
36.   TAXATION
         
37.   CIVIL SERVICE
         
38.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.001   Qualifications
   
30.002   Bonds required
   
30.003   Filling of vacancies
   
30.004   City Council officers
   
30.005   City Council presidential powers
Appointed Officials; General Provisions
   
30.020   Council conduct
   
30.021   Council control
   
30.022   Merger of offices
Specific Appointed Officials
   
30.035   City Manager
   
30.036   City Attorney
   
30.037   City Treasurer
   
30.038   Treasurer books; warrants
   
30.039   Treasurer annual report
   
30.040   City Clerk
   
30.041   Official seal
   
30.042   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
30.043   Chief of Police
   
30.044   Fire Chief
   
30.045   Public Works Director
   
30.046   Zoning Administrator
   
30.047   Building Inspector
   
30.048   Director of Finance
   
30.049   Utilities Director
   
30.050   Library Director
   
30.051   Senior Services Director
Oath of Office
   
30.060   Oath required; form
Compensation
   
30.075   Officers and employees
   
30.076   Salary adjustments
   
30.077   Conflict of interest
 
   
30.999   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.001 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Members of the City Council shall be residents and registered voters of the
city and shall hold no other employment with the city. They shall be permitted
to hold other elective office as provided by state law. Any Council member who
ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by this section shall
forthwith forfeit the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 2005-2720, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 30.002 BONDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk's office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-402) (Ord. 1797, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 2020-3006, passed 5-4-
2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 16-219, 16-
304
§ 30.003 FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the City Council shall be filled in accordance with current
state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 2005-2720, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 30.004 CITY COUNCIL OFFICERS.
   At the first regular meeting in December following the general election in
every even-numbered year, the Council shall elect one of its members as
President, who shall be ex-officio Mayor, and another as Vice President, who
shall serve in the absence of the President. In the absence of the President
and the Vice President, the Council may elect a temporary chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 2005-2720, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 30.005 CITY COUNCIL PRESIDENTIAL POWERS.
   The President of the Council shall preside over the Council, and have a
voice and vote in its proceedings but no veto. He or she shall be recognized as
the official head of the city for all ceremonial purposes, by the courts for
the purpose of serving civil process, and by the Governor for military
purposes. In addition, he or she shall exercise any other powers and perform
any duties not inconsistent with the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 19, Article
6, as are conferred upon the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-617
APPOINTED OFFICIALS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.020 COUNCIL CONDUCT.
   The Council shall choose a City Manager and a City Clerk, but no member of
the Council shall be chosen as Manager. Neither the Council nor any of its
committees or members shall dictate the appointment of any person to office or
employment by the City Manager, or in any manner seek to prevent him or her
from exercising his or her own judgment in the appointment of officers and
employees in the administrative service. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the
Council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely
through the City Manager, and neither the Council nor any member thereof shall
give orders to any of the subordinates of the City Manager, either publicly or
privately. The Council, or a committee thereof, may investigate the affairs of
any department or the official acts and conduct of any city officer. It shall
have power to administer oaths, compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books and papers, and may punish for contempt any person failing
to obey its subpoena or refusing to testify. No person shall be excused from
testifying, but his or her testimony shall not be used against him or her in
any criminal proceeding other than for perjury.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
§ 30.021 COUNCIL CONTROL.
   The Council shall have authority to create and discontinue departments,
offices, and employments, and by ordinance or resolution to prescribe, limit,
or change the compensation of the officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-620
§ 30.022 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective and appointive office or employment, except Mayor and Council
member, with any other elective or appointive office or employment, so that one
or more of the offices or employments be held by the same officer or employee
at the same time. The offices or employments merged and combined shall always
be construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall
be limited to a consolidation of official duties only. The salary or
compensation of the officer or employee holding the merged and combined offices
or employments, or offices and employments, shall not be in excess of the
maximum amount provided by law for the salary or compensation of the office,
offices, employment or employments so merged and combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-323) (Ord. 1750, passed 10-1-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-305, 16-318.01
SPECIFIC APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.035 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The chief executive officer of the city shall be the City Manager, who
shall be responsible for the proper administration of all affairs of the city.
He or she shall be chosen by the Council for an indefinite period, solely on
the basis of administrative qualifications, and need not be a resident of the
city or state when appointed. He or she shall hold office at the pleasure of
the Council, and receive a salary as it shall fix by ordinance. During the
absence or disability of the City Manager, the Council shall designate some
properly qualified person to perform the duties of the office.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Manager shall be:
      (1)   To see that the laws and ordinances are enforced;
      (2)   To appoint and remove all heads of departments and all subordinate
officers and employees in the departments in both the classified and
unclassified service, which appointments shall be upon merit and fitness alone,
and in the classified service all appointments and removals shall be subject to
the civil service provisions;
      (3)   To exercise control over all departments and divisions thereof that
may be created by the Council;
      (4)   To attend all meetings of the Council with the right to take part
in the discussion but not to vote;
      (5)   To recommend to the Council for adoption such measures as he or she
may deem necessary or expedient;
      (6)   To prepare the annual budget and keep the Council fully advised as
to the financial condition and needs of the city; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by
statute, or by ordinance or resolution of the Council.
   (C)   The City Manager may investigate at any time the affairs of any
department or the conduct of any officer or employee. He or she, or any person
or persons appointed by him or her for the purpose, shall have the same power
to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and papers
and other evidence, and to punish for contempt, which has herein been conferred
upon the Council.
   (D)   Before taking office, the City Manager shall file with the City Clerk
a surety company bond, conditioned upon the honest and faithful performance of
his or her duties, in such sum as shall be fixed by the Council. The premium of
this bond shall be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-303)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-645 through 19-648
§ 30.036 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney, as appointed by the City Manager, shall be the legal
advisor of the Council and city officers. The City Attorney shall commence and
defend all suits and actions necessary to be commenced or defended on behalf of
the city, or that may be ordered by the Council. He or she shall attend
meetings of the Council and give it his or her opinion upon any matter
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing as may be required. She or
he shall draw all ordinances, contracts and other documents requested by the
City Manager and Council. The City Council shall have the right to pay the City
Attorney additional compensation for legal services performed by him or her for
the city or to employ a City Prosecutor and additional legal assistance and to
pay for the legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 16-319
§ 30.037 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3). Not more than
the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged and paid for
such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer",
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 2021-3025, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 30.038 TREASURER BOOKS; WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall daily, as moneys are received, foot the several
columns of his or her cashbook and of his or her register, and carry the
amounts forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money
received by the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or
she shall close the account for that year in the register and shall carry
forward the excess. Any Treasurer who shall fail regularly to enter upon his or
her cashbook the amounts so received and receipted for, or who shall fail to
keep his or her cashbook footed from day to day, for the space of three days,
shall forfeit for each offense the sum of $100, to be recovered in a civil
action on his or her official bond by any person holding a warrant drawn on the
Treasurer, one-half to the person bringing the action, and one-half to the
school fund of the county. The cashbook, register, and retained receipts of the
Treasurer shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose
name any warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 1-308)
   (B)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register which shall show in
columns arranged for that purpose, the number, date, and amount of each warrant
presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the same is drawn, the
date of presentation, the name and address of the person in whose name the same
is registered, the date of payment, the amount of interest, and the total
amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the person in whose name the
warrant is registered as herein provided. On presentation of a warrant for
payment to the Treasurer when there are not sufficient moneys on hand to the
credit of the proper fund to pay the same, it shall be the duty of the
Treasurer to enter the warrant in his or her warrant register for payment in
the order of its presentation and he or she shall endorse on the warrant the
words "registered for payment" with the date of registration and shall sign the
endorsement, whereupon the warrant shall draw interest at the rate fixed by the
City Council, which rate shall be endorsed on the warrant, until notice of
payment shall be given the registered owner. The Treasurer shall neither
directly or indirectly contract for nor purchase any city warrant at any
discount whatever upon the sum due on the warrant or order, and if he or she
shall so contract for or purchase any order or warrant, he or she shall not be
allowed in settlement the amount of the order or warrant, or any part thereof,
and shall also forfeit the whole amount due on the order or warrant.
(Prior Code, § 1-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 45-106, 77-2202, 77-2210 through
77-2212, 77-2203
§ 30.039 TREASURER ANNUAL REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to prepare and publish annually,
within 60 days following the close of the city fiscal year, a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year.
Not more than the legal rate shall be charged and paid for the publication. The
publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general circulation in the
city. Any Treasurer failing or neglecting to prepare and publish the statement
of receipts and expenditures shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be removed from office for the failure or neglect.
(Prior Code, § 1-309) Penalty, see §
30.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1101, 19-1103, 19-1104
§ 30.040 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be appointed by the City Council and under the
direction of the City Manager. Except when some other person is specifically
appointed, the Clerk shall be, and assume the duties of, the City Treasurer. It
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to attend every meeting of the Council and
keep a record of the proceedings thereof. Whenever required by the Mayor, or
requested by two members of the Council, or the City Manager, he or she shall
deliver a notice to the members of the Council of any special meeting thereof,
and shall notify any and all committees of the Council of the business
entrusted to them. The Clerk shall keep and carefully preserve all papers and
books which may come into his or her possession as Clerk, filing and arranging
them in a manner convenient for reference. The Clerk shall keep the seal of the
city and duly attest thereby the Mayor's signature to all ordinances and all
deeds and papers required to be attested, when ordered by the governing body.
The Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses granted and the purpose for
which they were issued, and report to the Council at every meeting. At the
beginning of each month, he or she shall, if required by the governing body,
furnish the Police Department with a true copy of the register of all licenses
then in force. He or she shall issue licenses and collect license fees
connected therewith as provided by the laws of the state or the city.
   (B)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the Council, the Clerk shall
prepare and publish the proceedings of the Council in a legal newspaper, or
more than one legal newspaper if directed by the Council. The charge for the
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by law. The publication charge
shall be paid and allowed as other claims against the General Fund. Wherever
the Clerk is required to issue licenses, occupation tax receipts, or permits,
the City Collector shall collect the amount required to be paid by the
applicant therefor. The Clerk shall have additional duties and receive a salary
as the governing body may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 1-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publish within 30 days after the close of each
month the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name
of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee
job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries corresponding to
such job titles shall be published. Each job title published shall be
descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the position.
(Prior Code, § 1-312)
(Ord. 1680, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2020-3006, passed 5-4-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 16-317, 19-615, 19-1102 through 19-
1104
§ 30.041 OFFICIAL SEAL.
   The official Corporate Seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "City of McCook,
Nebraska. Incorporated as City of First Class December 21, 1933." The City
Clerk shall affix an impression or representation of the official seal to all
licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of
the governing body and countersigned by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-501) (Ord. 1680, passed 4-4-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-115
§ 30.042 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The City Engineer, as appointed by and under the direction of the City
Manager, shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and of all
work done for the city, including sewers, extension of water system and heating
system, electric light and sewerage system and power plant, and accurately make
such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be necessary in the prosecution
of any public work, which shall be public records and belong to the city and be
turned over to his or her successor. The City Engineer, when requested by the
City Manager, shall make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may
be done or furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates
and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of
streets, and the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform other
duties as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 1-313)
   (B)   The City Manager may, whenever it is deemed expedient, employ a
special engineer to make or assist in making any particular estimate or survey,
and any estimate or survey made by the special engineer shall have the same
validity and serve in all respects as though the same had been made by the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 1-314)
(Ord. 1820, passed 3-2-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-320, 16-321
§ 30.043 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, as appointed by and under the direction of the City
Manager, shall have the immediate superintendence of the police. He or she and
the policemen or policewomen shall have the power, and it shall be their duty,
to arrest all offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or
by night, in the same manner as a Sheriff or Constable, and keep them in the
city prison or other place to prevent their escape, until a trial or
examination may be had before the proper officer, and they shall have the same
power as a Sheriff and Constable in relation to all criminal matters arising
out of a violation of a city law and all process issued by the County Court in
connection with a violation of a city law. They shall arrest and detain any
person found violating any law of the state or any law of the city, until a
legal warrant can be obtained. Each member of the city Police Department shall
have the duties of becoming well informed as to the laws of the state and laws
of the city, of enforcing the laws, of wearing at all times the badge, uniform,
and insignia furnished by the city for the Police and of properly caring for
same, and all further duties as shall be assigned to them by the City Manager
and Council and as are otherwise provided by law. The Chief of Police shall
have custody of all city property used by the city police, shall execute the
orders of the Mayor and City Manager, shall be a member of the Board of Health
and the Secretary and Quarantine Officer thereof, shall have charge of traffic
control on the city streets, shall make and file or cause to be made and filed
complaints for violations of the ordinances of the city, shall have charge of
the city jail and the prisoners therein, and shall perform any other duties as
are assigned to or required of him or her by the City Manager and Council or
otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-315)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-238, 16-323, 29-401
§ 30.044 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, as appointed by and under the direction of the City
Manager, shall be responsible for the day-to-day supervision, administration
and operation of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have control over the property, implements and
apparatus used by the Fire Department subject to the general and specific
directives of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 1-317) (Ord. 96-2349, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2583, passed
11-19-2001)
§ 30.045 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Public Works Director, as appointed by and under the direction of
the City Manager, shall have general charge and control over all work and
direct activities of the Public Works Department.
   (B)   The Public Works Department includes the Street Division, Collection
Division, Recycling Division, Transfer Station Division, Cemetery Division,
Parks Division, Ball Parks Division, Airport Division, and Swimming Pool
Division. The Public Works Director shall consult with the Division Supervisors
concerning problems, programs, and policies in force; provide technical advice
to the City Manager and other city departments concerning public works programs
and operating problems; organize, coordinate, direct, and supervise staff;
participate in long-range planning; and investigate additional service areas.
(Prior Code, § 1-318) (Ord. 1680, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2002-2611, passed 2-4-
2002; Ord. 2004-2707, passed 9-20-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 30.046 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her agent is hereby designated by the City
Council as the Zoning Administrator. He or she shall administer and enforce the
zoning ordinance. He or she may be provided with the assistance of other
persons as the City Council may direct.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
the zoning ordinance are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the
person responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the actions necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by the zoning ordinance to ensure compliance
with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1-319)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 30.047 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector, as appointed by and under the direction of the City
Manager, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of the
municipal code pertaining to building construction and repair under the
direction of the City Manager. For such purpose, he/she shall have the powers
of the Municipal Police. Under the direction of the City Manager and upon
presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector, or his or her duly
authorized representative, may enter at all reasonable times any building,
structure, or premise to perform any duty imposed upon the City Manager by any
Building Code, Electrical Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code, or Housing Code
duly adopted by reference in the municipal code, or any provision of the
municipal code. Whenever any building or construction work is being done
contrary to the provisions of the codes, it shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector under the direction of the City Manager to order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to
be done. Any such person shall immediately stop, or cause to be stopped, said
work until authorization is received from the Building Inspector to continue
the work. When any structure is in a dangerous condition or the building is
being used contrary to the provisions of the laws of the city, the Building
Inspector under the direction of the City Manager, may order such use
discontinued or the structure, or portion thereof in violation vacated. The
Building Inspector, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of
his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally
liable and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act or omission in the
discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought against the Building
Inspector, because of an alleged act or omission performed by him or her in the
enforcement of any provision of the municipal codes relating to buildings or
building construction shall be defended by the legal department of the city
until final termination of the proceedings. The Building Inspector may request,
and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his or her
duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the city. The
Building Inspector shall have such additional duties, carry out tasks, and make
such reports as the City Manager may prescribe from time to time.
§ 30.048 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   The Director of Finance shall be the Treasurer of the city. Under the
direction of the City Manager, he or she shall have general charge, direction,
and control over all work and activities of the Finance Department including
the duties of Treasurer as described in this code. The Director of Finance
shall also assist department heads in determining annual expenditure
requirements, assist the City Manager in the preparation of the budget, long-
range planning, all personnel changes, promotions, and disciplinary actions.
(Prior Code, § 1-320) (Ord. 1680, passed 4-4-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 30.049 UTILITIES DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Utilities Director, as appointed by and under the direction of the
City Manager, shall have general charge and control over all work and direct
activities of the Water Department and Sewer Department and shall have the
immediate control of the water plant, pump house and machinery and appliances
used in connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
city and the systems of sewerage of the city.
   (B)   The Utilities Director shall consult with the Division Supervisors
concerning problems, programs, and policies in force; provide technical advice
to the City Manager and other city departments concerning programs of the Water
Department and Sewer Department and operating problems; organize, coordinate,
direct, and supervise staff; and participate in long-range planning.
   (C)   The Utilities Director shall supervise and inspect repairs and
maintenance work on the city water and sewer systems; enforce the laws of the
city relating to the Water Department and Sewer Department as well as carry out
any order or directive of the City Manager. The Utilities Director, or his or
her duly authorized agent, shall have free access at proper hours of the day to
all parts of each premise and building to or in which water or sewer service is
furnished to examine pipes and fixtures and ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or violation of city law.
(Prior Code, § 1-321) (Ord. 2004-2707, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 30.050 LIBRARY DIRECTOR.
   The Library Director, as appointed by and under the direction of the City
Manager, shall manage the city library. He or she shall also collect all money
received by the library and turn the same over to the City Treasurer along with
a report of the source of the revenue.
(Prior Code, § 1-322) (Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 30.051 SENIOR SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   The Senior Services Director, as appointed by and under the director of the
City Manager, shall be responsible for the day-to-day supervision,
administration, and operation of the senior center and the public transit
system.
OATH OF OFFICE
§ 30.060 OATH REQUIRED; FORM.
   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
   "I ___________ do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I bear true faith and allegiance to the
same; that I take this obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or
for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform
the duties of the office of ___________ according to law, and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God."
(Neb. RS 11-101) (Prior Code, § 1-403)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.075 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Salaries of officers and employees of the city shall be in such amount as
the governing body shall fix by ordinance, provided that after the governing
body has adopted a wage and salary schedule with appropriate employee
classifications and wage ranges for each classification, by ordinance, the
ordinance shall be sufficient for all changes in salary for city employees
included thereunder without further ordinance being passed, approved, and
published. All salaries shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-310, 19-616, 19-620
§ 30.076 SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   The annual compensation of the Mayor and Council members shall be payable
quarterly in equal installments, and shall be fixed by the Council. The
emoluments of any appointive or elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which the officer was elected or appointed,
except that when there are officers elected or appointed to the Council, or a
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
the Council, board, or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which the person was elected or appointed when, during the same time, the
emoluments have been increased. For each absence from regular meetings of the
Council, unless authorized by a two-thirds vote of all members thereof, there
shall be deducted a sum equal to 2% of the annual salary. Absence from five
consecutive regular meetings shall operate to vacate the seat of a member,
unless the absence is excused by the Council by resolution setting forth the
excuse and entered upon the journal.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-616
§ 30.077 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER shall mean:
      (1)   Any members of any board or commission of the city;
      (2)   Any appointed official if the city official:
         (a)   Serves on a board or commission which spends and administers its
own funds; and
         (b)   Is dealing with a contract made by the board or commission.
      (3)   Any elected city official. Unless specified otherwise, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers for
purposes of this section, with respect to their duties as firefighters and
ambulance drivers.
   (B)   No officer of the city shall be permitted to benefit from any contract
to which the city is a party. The existence of an interest in any contract
renders the contract voidable by decree of a court of competent jurisdiction as
to any person who entered into the contract or took assignment thereof with
actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action to have a contract
declared void under this section may be brought by the city or by any resident
thereof and must be brought within one year after the contract is signed or
assigned. Any decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person for the
reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor, or services furnished
under the contract, to the extent that the city has benefitted thereby.
   (C)   The prohibition in this section shall apply only when the officer, or
his or her parent, spouse, or child:
      (1)   Has a business with which the individual is associated, or business
association, which shall mean a business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than 5% equity interest, or
is a stockholder of publicly-traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
       (2)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract; provided however, the officer shall not be deemed to have an
interest within the meaning of this section if the officer:
         (a)   Is an employee of the business involved in the contract; and
         (b)   Has no ownership interest or will not receive a pecuniary fee.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governmental body
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except that
if the number of members of the board declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the board, with all members present, from securing a quorum on
the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the city as to inspection or performance under the
contract in which he or she has an interest.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any city by a financial institution
shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this section. The
ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall not
constitute an interest within the meaning of this section. Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (D), above, if an officer's parent, spouse or child is
an employee of the city, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees or all employees within a
classification and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action. If an officer has the power to employ personnel and he or she
hires his or her parent, spouse, or child, the officer shall disclose the
hiring pursuant to divisions (F)(1)(a) through (e) below, except that if the
parent, spouse, or child is already employed in the position at the time the
officer takes office and the position does not change, no disclosure need be
made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any contract entered
into with an interested officer shall be subject to applicable competitive
bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable to the city.
   (F)   (1)   The City Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records, a
ledger containing the information listed in divisions (F)(1)(a) through (e)
below about every contract entered into by the city in which an officer has an
interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as provided in
division (D) above. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years
from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the city involved;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
to the Clerk not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both
parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk shall be available for public inspection
during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (G)   An open account established for the benefit of any city or entity
thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be deemed a
contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement required to
be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten days after such
account is open. Thereafter, the Clerk shall maintain a running account of all
amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty cash or a
petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Any officer who knowingly violates the provisions of this section or
Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty for the violation as set out in §
30.999 of this chapter.
   (I)   The city may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of the city may
have an interest. No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers, shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other than his or
her salary. The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003) (Ord. 1709, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1754, passed 10-1-
1984; Ord. 1817, passed 2-2-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312, 49-
14,103.03, 70-624.04
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any section
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise
specified in the particular chapter or section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court, provided whenever any section of
this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be
penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Corporate existence
   
31.02   Service of process
   
31.03   Powers of city
   
31.04   Codification of ordinances
Meetings
   
31.15   Definitions
   
31.16   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.17   Closed sessions; chance meetings
   
31.18   Emergency meetings
   
31.19   Minutes
   
31.20   Voting
   
31.21   Notice to media
   
31.22   Participation by public
   
31.23   Meeting day and time; quorum; call to order
   
31.24   Rules of conduct
   
31.25   Expedited consent agenda
   
31.26   Power to compel witnesses and testimony
Elections
   
31.40   General provisions
   
31.41   Representation at large; term
   
31.42   Initiative and referendum
City Property
   
31.55   Responsibility for maintenance and control
   
31.56   Sale or conveyance; real property
   
31.57   Removal of obstructions; permitted obstructions
   
31.58   Overhanging branches
   
31.59   Procedure for appraisal and acquisition of real property
   
31.60   Public works construction; architect or professional engineer required;
exceptions
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The city is hereby found and declared to be a city of more than 5,000
persons. The city shall be governed by the laws of the state regulating cities
of the first class.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-101
§ 31.02 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   All process affecting the city may be served by personal, residence, or
certified mail upon the Chief Executive Official or the Clerk.
(Neb. RS 25-510.02(2)) (Prior Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 1748, passed 10-1-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 16-115
§ 31.03 POWERS OF CITY.
   The city is a body corporate and politic. It shall have the power to sue and
be sued; to purchase, lease, and lease with option to buy; to acquire property
by gift or devise; to hold real and personal property within or without the
limits of the city, and real estate sold to satisfy unpaid tax obligations for
the use of the city in such manner and upon such terms and conditions as may be
deemed in the best interests of the city; to sell, exchange, or lease any
personal or real property owned by the city, including park land, in such
manner and upon such terms and conditions as may be deemed in the best
interests of the city, provided that real estate owned by the city may be
conveyed without consideration to the state or to the state Armory Board for
state armory sites, or if acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed in
the manner strictly as provided in Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006; to make all
contracts and do all other acts in relation to the concerns of the city as may
be necessary in the exercise of its corporate powers; and to exercise such
other and further powers as may be conferred by law.
(Neb. RS 16-201) (Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 31.04 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The city shall have the power to revise the ordinances of the city from time
to time and publish the same in book form. The revision shall be evidenced by a
general codification ordinance which shall repeal all other ordinances in
conflict and embrace as the governing law of the city all provisions therein.
All ordinances in force at the time of the codification shall continue in force
for the purpose of all rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, and
liabilities incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-247
MEETINGS
§ 31.15 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal,
of a public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
      PUBLIC BODY.
         (a)   The governing body of the city;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies now or hereafter created pursuant to
law;
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above; and
         (d)   Instrumentalities exercising essentially public functions.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of the bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
(Ord. 1707, passed 10-3-1983) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 84-1409(2)
§ 31.16 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-603) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2006-2773, passed
7-3-2006; Ord. 2021-3031, passed 10-18-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1411
§ 31.17 CLOSED SESSIONS; CHANCE MEETINGS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if the individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions may be held
for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if the person has not
requested a public meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION shall mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise
to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1) of this
section.
   (D)   (1)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   The challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. The challenge and its disposition shall be recorded
in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this chapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, e-mail, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   This chapter shall not apply to chance meetings, or to attendance at
or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which
there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no
vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-604) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2006-2773, passed
7-3-2006)
§ 31.18 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in the meeting shall pertain only to the emergency. The
emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
31.21 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of the emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Prior Code, § 1-605) (Ord. 1707, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-
2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.19 MINUTES.
   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time, place,
members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed. The
minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or disclosed in
open session shall be public records and open to public inspection during
normal business hours. Minutes shall be written and available for inspection
within ten working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever
occurs earlier.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412, 84-1413
§ 31.20 VOTING.
   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record shall
state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting. The
requirements for a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the public
body utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the public body to be readily seen by the public. The vote to
elect leadership within the public body may be taken by secret ballot, but the
total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in the minutes. An
affirmative vote of a majority of the elected members of the governing body
shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-607) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 16-503, 84-1413
§ 31.21 NOTICE TO MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, Secretary, or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.22 PARTICIPATION BY PUBLIC.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.17, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A public body may not be required to
allow citizens to speak at each meeting, nor may it forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The public body may,
however, require any member of the public desiring to address the body to
identify himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state. No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it holds
a meeting outside of this state if, but only if:
      (1)   A member entity of the public body is located outside of this state
and the meeting is in that member's jurisdiction;
      (2)   All out-of-state locations identified in the notice are located
within public buildings used by members of the entity or at a place which will
accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (3)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including making a telephone
conference call available at an instate location to members, the public, or the
press, if requested 24 hours in advance;
      (4)   No more than 25% of the public body's meetings in a calendar year
are held out-of-state;
      (5)   Out-of-state meetings are not used to circumvent any of the public
government purposes established in the state Open Meetings Act;
      (6)   Reasonable arrangements are made to provide viewing at other
instate locations for a videoconference meeting if requested 14 days in advance
and if economically and reasonably available in the area; and
      (7)   The public body publishes notice of the out-of-state meeting at
least 21 days before the date of the meeting in a legal newspaper of statewide
circulation.
   (F)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (G)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the
Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 1707, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1789, passed 4-21-
1986; Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2006-2773, passed 7-3-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 31.23 MEETING DAY AND TIME; QUORUM; CALL TO ORDER.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the governing body shall be held in the City
Council Chambers. Regular meetings shall be held on the first and third Mondays
of each month at the hour of 5:30 p.m., except if the regular meeting day falls
on a holiday, then the meeting shall be the following day.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, City Manager, or two
members of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the
Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof,
shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the City Clerk shall notify the Council members of the special
meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not
be given to a Council member known to be out of the state, or physically unable
to be present.
   (C)   The Council shall hold its regular meeting on the first Monday in
December following the general elections in every even numbered year.
   (D)   A majority of all members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a less number may adjourn, from
time to time, and compel the attendance of the absent members. At the hour
appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of
members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the
Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the
Vice President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and the Vice
President of the Council, the City Council members shall elect a President pro
tempore.
(Prior Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 1680, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 1794, passed 4-21-1986;
Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2015-2916, passed 5-18-2015; Ord. 2019-
2983, passed 7-1-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-401, 16-402, 19-615, 19-617
§ 31.24 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   The business and proceedings of the meeting of the Council shall be
conducted in accordance with the following rules.
   (A)   The presiding officer may refer back to any order of business after
passing it, if there is no objection from any Council member.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall preserve order at all meetings and when
any Council member is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. All questions of order shall be decided by the presiding
officer, subject to appeal to the Council. In such appeal, a Council member
shall state briefly what in his or her opinion the ruling should have been and
upon this appeal being seconded, the question of the appeal shall be put by the
presiding officer.
   (C)   When a question is being put by the presiding officer, no Council
member shall leave the Council Chambers.
   (D)   If not covered in this section, questions of procedure and conduct at
Council meetings shall be decided by the President of the Council in accordance
with Robert's Rules of Order.
   (E)   Upon request of any Council member, any motion or resolution shall be
reduced to writing before being acted upon.
   (F)   No motion shall be put or discussed until it has been seconded.
   (G)   The minutes of the meeting shall show the Council member who offered
or introduced a motion, resolution, or ordinance and the Council member
seconding the same.
   (H)   The "yeas" and "nays" upon any question shall be taken and entered on
the minutes on request of any Council member.
   (I)   The Council may reprimand or censure any of its members for improper
behavior as Council member.
   (J)   Any resolution, ordinance, or motion may be withdrawn by its
introducer or mover with consent of the Council member seconding same, before
same is voted upon.
   (K)   Motions to reconsider may only be made by a Council member who voted
with the majority.
   (L)   The presiding officer may reasonably limit the time during which any
person not a member of the Council may address a Council meeting.
   (M)   The presiding officer may express his or her opinion on any subject
being discussed or debated by the Council.
   (N)   The rules may be suspended on the affirmative vote of three-fourths of
the members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-611) (Ord. 2005-2723, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-403
§ 31.25 EXPEDITED CONSENT AGENDA.
   (A)   There is hereby established a consent agenda procedure for the
transaction of certain routine business at Council meetings. The intent of this
procedure is to expedite the conducting of routine business at Council meetings
to allow more time to be devoted to substantive issues by condensing the time
necessary to process routine items, but yet allowing an opportunity for full
discussion in consideration of the items if appropriate.
   (B)   The procedure to be followed is as follows.
      (1)   Items considered by the City Manager to be of routine and non-
controversial nature may be placed by him or her on the agenda for regular
Council meetings and special Council meetings under the heading of "consent
agenda." The items shall be clearly worded to indicate action to be taken by
the Council.
      (2)   At the Council meeting, the Mayor will review those items placed on
the consent agenda and ask if any member of the Council or public in attendance
wish to have an item removed from the consent agenda and placed on the regular
agenda. Requests are not debatable, and will be complied with without
discussion.
      (3)   After all items have been removed from the consent agenda, as
requested by a member of the Council or public in attendance, the Council will
then consider adoption of the actions recommended and specified in the consent
agenda by a single motion and vote of the Council.
      (4)   All items listed on the consent agenda shall be recorded in the
minutes individually and in their proper form, and the vote recorded adopting
the recommended and specified action on the consent agenda shall be shown as
the vote on each item in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-612)
§ 31.26 POWER TO COMPEL WITNESSES AND TESTIMONY.
   The Council or any committee of the members thereof shall have power to
compel the attendance of witnesses for the investigation of matters that may
come before them. The presiding officer of the Council, or chairperson of the
committee for the time being, may administer the requisite oaths. The Council
or committee shall have the same authority to compel the giving of testimony as
is conferred on courts of justice.
(Prior Code, § 1-613)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-406
ELECTIONS
§ 31.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The city shall hold its city elections in accordance with the provisions of
Neb. RS Chapter 32.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 2005-2722, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. 19-612(2), 32-505
§ 31.41 REPRESENTATION AT LARGE; TERM.
   The City Council shall be made up of five Council members. Council members
shall be elected from the city at large unless the City Council by ordinance
provides for the election of all or some of its Council members by wards.
Council members shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors
are elected and have qualified, except that the first election under an
ordinance changing the manner of election shall be for all Council members
irrespective of their manner of election.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)
§ 31.42 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   The city accepts and makes a part of this code Neb. RS Chapter 18, Article
25 relating to initiative and referendum.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 2005-2721, passed 2-7-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
CITY PROPERTY
§ 31.55 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the city, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and free from
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
§ 31.56 SALE OR CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
municipality to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipality election held therein and
is filed with the governing body, that property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The
governing body shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written receipt that the petition is
in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the governing body. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
municipality or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the governing body. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the governing body
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
governing body the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the governing body within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the governing body. The delivery shall be
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the municipality for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The
notice shall give a general description of the property offered for sale and
state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of
an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(Prior Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 96-2375, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 99-2505, passed 3-
1-1999; Ord. 2020-3005, passed 5-4-2020)
§ 31.57 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs, growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public
ground and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements,
shall be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Trees, shrubs and their
roots may be removed by the city at the expense of the owner of the property
upon which the tree or shrub is located should the owner fail, or neglect,
after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or
corporation to obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures,
or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any building
material, sand, gravel, dirt, trash, or debris of any kind or character in any
of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee of property
upon which any building or improvement is in course of construction, and the
duty of his or her contractors and builders, to use no more of the public
street and sidewalk than may be necessary for the construction of the
improvement. It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director or Chief of
Police to prevent the accumulation of building materials in the public streets
and highways. They may designate how much of the public streets and highways
may be occupied with building materials, and may order the prompt removal of
the material beyond the limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210, 16-609
§ 31.58 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the street or walk. Whenever
the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or sidewalks
contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the
street from street lights, or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the governing body at any regular or special meeting may
pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove the
obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof from the
Public Works Director stating that the city will remove the branches and charge
the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for
improvements as herein provided, if the resolution is not complied with. In the
event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property
lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210
§ 31.59 PROCEDURE FOR APPRAISAL AND ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent
domain, the city shall do so only after the governing body has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
   (B)   The city shall not purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of the property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
(Ord. 99-2503, passed 3-11-1999)
§ 31.60 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION; ARCHITECT OR PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER REQUIRED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been prepared,
and the construction has been observed, by an architect, professional engineer,
or those under the direct supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $100,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance of professional services for itself if the city
appoints a city engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in responsible charge of
architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the city that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of city water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212,
the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into city water wells, and the
decommissioning of city water wells, unless the construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer, or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
(Prior Code, § 8-107) (Ord. 99-2504, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 2012-2875, passed 6-
28-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449 through
81-3453
§ 31.99 PENALTY. 
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Whenever any section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a
violation of that section shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000,
in which case a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 32: ORDINANCES
Section
   
32.01   Authority
   
32.02   Passage pursuant to rules; proof
   
32.03   Vote on appropriation of money
   
32.04   Requirement of reading
   
32.05   Requirement of publication or posting
   
32.06   Style and title
   
32.07   Emergency ordinances
   
32.08   (Reserved)
   
32.09   Amendments and revisions
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 AUTHORITY.
   The governing body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
by-laws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce, and security.
(Prior Code, § 1-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-403, 16-404, 19-611
§ 32.02 PASSAGE PURSUANT TO RULES; PROOF.
   All ordinances shall be passed pursuant to rules and regulations as the
Council may provide. All ordinances may be proven by the certificate of the
City Clerk under the seal of the city. The passage, approval, and publication
or posting of any ordinance shall be sufficiently proven by a certificate under
the seal of the city from the Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and
approved, and when and in what paper the same was published. The city code
shall be received as evidence of the passage and legal publication of its
contents in all courts without further proof.
(Prior Code, § 1-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-403
§ 32.03 VOTE ON APPROPRIATION OF MONEY.
   All ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation or payment of
money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of a majority
of all members elected to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-703)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-404
§ 32.04 REQUIREMENT OF READING.
   Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members
elected to the governing body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature
shall be read by the title on three different days. This requirement may be
suspended by three-fourths vote of the Council, in which case the ordinance may
be read by title or number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of
the Council may require any ordinance to be read in full before final passage
under either process.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-404
§ 32.05 REQUIREMENT OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   Within 15 days after they are passed, all ordinances of a general nature
shall be published one time in:
   (A)   Some newspaper published in the city, or if no paper is published in
the city, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-705) (Ord. 1816, passed 1-5-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-613
§ 32.06 STYLE AND TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all City ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the
Governing Body of the City of McCook, Nebraska."
(Prior Code, § 1-706)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its
title.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-404, 16-405
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger or any other emergency requiring its immediate operation, an ordinance
shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor, and the posting thereof
in at least three of the most public places in the city. The emergency notice
shall recite the emergency and be passed by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body, and entered upon the City Clerk's minutes.
(Neb. RS 16-405) (Prior Code, § 1-708)
§ 32.08 (RESERVED).
§ 32.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
that ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(Neb. RS 16-404) (Prior Code, § 1-709)
§ 32.99 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Whenever any section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a
violation of that section shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000,
in which case a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
Budget Regulations
   
33.01   Financial statement required
   
33.02   Proposed budget requirements
   
33.03   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
33.04   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
33.05   Annual audit; financial statements
Taxation and Appropriation
   
33.20   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
33.21   Sinking funds; gift of money or property
   
33.22   Motor vehicle tax
   
33.23   Annual appropriation bill
   
33.24   Expenditures; limitations; diversion of funds; violation; penalty;
payment of judgments
   
33.25   Claims and accounts payable; filing; requirements; disallowance;
notice; costs
Deposit and Investment of Funds
   
33.35   Depository of funds
   
33.36   Certificates of deposit; time deposits
   
33.37   Depository bond or security
   
33.38   Maximum deposit per bank
   
33.39   Investments and use of surplus funds
Contracts and Payments
   
33.50   Contract appropriations
   
33.51   Contract vote
   
33.52   Fair labor standards
   
33.53   Warrant payment
   
33.54   Uncollected debts
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Chapter 36
BUDGET REGULATIONS
§ 33.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   The governing body shall cause to be published semiannually a statement of
the receipts of the city and the sources thereof and an itemized account of the
expenditures and the financial condition of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-722
§ 33.02 PROPOSED BUDGET REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement
on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor. The proposed budget statement
shall be made available to the public prior to publication of the notice of the
hearing on the proposed budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-506. The
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. The statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. The proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property, shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and the amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 1752, passed 10-1-1984; Ord. 99-2519, passed 4-19-
1999)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 33.03 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the
total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the governing body's principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing
body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by governing body, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the governing body of such errors. The governing body
shall correct any such error as provided in Neb. RS 13-511. Warrants for the
payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall
be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has
notified the governing body.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(Ord. 2020-3004, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. 2021-3028, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 33.04 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)    Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an amount of tax
more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under §
33.02.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the final adjusted values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 33.05 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city's accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. All public utilities utility or other
enterprises which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
   (B)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
   (C)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
TAXATION AND APPROPRIATION
§ 33.20 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The governing body shall have the power to levy and collect taxes for all
city purposes on all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits which is taxable according to the laws of the state. All city taxes,
both real and personal, except special assessments otherwise provided for,
shall become due on the first day of December of each year. The Council shall
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied for
the purposes of the adopted budget statement, including all special assessments
and other taxes. The County Clerk shall then place the same on the property tax
list to be collected in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-906)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-702
§ 33.21 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the provisions of
this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money or property so
donated shall vest in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who
shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or
funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the City Council may manage
the same as in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library
purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city library; city auditorium or community house for social or recreational
purposes; city hall; city public library, auditorium, or community house in a
single building; city swimming pool and appurtenances thereto; city jail; city
building to house equipment or personnel of a fire department, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city park; city cemetery; city medical
clinic building, together with furnishings and equipment: or city hospital. The
city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund
as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been
in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period
of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for
the submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as
required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvement mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned for
consummation under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among
other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the
estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide
such cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks
before the day of the election in a legal newspaper published in the city or,
if no legal newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published
in the county in which the city is located and of general circulation. If no
legal newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in
some legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors
in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. Provisions of the statutes
of this state relating to election of officers, voting places, election
apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of ballots, information to voters,
delivery of ballots, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes,
records and certificates of elections, and recounts of votes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to voting on the proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
33.39. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds; provided that the
question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it
fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year
from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(Prior Code, § 1-910)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337, 7702339
§ 33.22 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The governing body of the city may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or
used in the city, which tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer in which the
city is located when the registration fees as provided in Neb. RS 60-329
through 60-339 are paid. The taxes shall be credited by the County Treasurer to
the Road Fund of the city. The funds shall be used by the city for
constructing, resurfacing, maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys,
public ways or parts thereof, for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when
created for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-928) (Ord. 1895, passed 4-16-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
§ 33.23 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, "The Annual Appropriation Bill," in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-704
§ 33.24 EXPENDITURES; LIMITATIONS; DIVERSION OF FUNDS; VIOLATION; PENALTY;
PAYMENT OF JUDGMENTS.
   The Mayor and Council shall not have power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the treasurer for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance or the claim for the payment of which such
order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to Neb. RS 16-726 through
16-729, and a fund has been provided in the adopted budget statement out of
which such claim is payable. Any transfer or diversion of the money or credits
from any of the funds to another fund or to a purpose other and different from
that for which proposed, except as provided in Neb. RS 16-721, shall render any
City Council member voting therefor or any officer of the corporation
participating therein guilty of a misdemeanor, and any person shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined $25 for each offense, together with costs of
prosecution. Should any judgment be obtained against the city, the Mayor and
Finance Committee, with the sanction of the City Council, may borrow a
sufficient amount to pay the same, for a period of time not to extend beyond
the close of the next fiscal year, which sum and interest thereon shall, in
like manner, be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax
levy of the next year and embraced therein.
(Prior Code, §§ 1-908, 1-909)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-706, 16-726 through 16-729
§ 33.25 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE; FILING; REQUIREMENTS; DISALLOWANCE;
NOTICE; COSTS.
   (A)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable against a
city of the first class shall be presented in writing; state the name and
address of the claimant and the amount of the claim; and fully and accurately
identify the items or services for which payment is claimed or the time, place,
nature, and circumstances giving rise to the claim.
   (B)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim, other
than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file such
claim within ninety days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
   (D)   No costs shall be recovered against such city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 16-726)
DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.35 DEPOSITORY OF FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit, for
safekeeping, in state or national banks of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. The
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the banking institution shall also
be serving as Mayor, member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the
city, shall not disqualify the bank from acting as a depository for the city
funds.
(Prior Code, § 1-911)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-712
§ 33.36 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS.
   The City Treasurer may and is hereby authorized to purchase certificates of
deposit from and make time deposits in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions selected as
depositories of city funds under provisions herein. The certificates of deposit
purchased and time deposits shall bear interest, and shall be secured as set
forth herein; provided, that the penal sum of the bond or the sum of the pledge
of assets shall be reduced in the amount of the time deposit or certificate of
deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 1-912)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-713
§ 33.37 DEPOSITORY BOND OR SECURITY.
   (A)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the City Treasurer shall
require each depository bank to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
the deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the city and
be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned that a depository
shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a statement in
duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the amount of money of the city
held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion thereto, and how
credited. The bond shall also be conditioned that the depository shall
generally do and perform whatever may be required by the provisions herein and
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as
nearly as practicable in the form provided by the laws of the state; provided,
no person in any way connected with any depository bank, as officer or
stockholder, shall be accepted as a surety on any bond given by the bank of
which he or she is an officer or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with
the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-913)
   (B)   In lieu of the bond required herein, any bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution making application to
become a depository may give as security as provided in the Public Funds
Deposit Security Act to the City Clerk, provided, that the penal sum of the
bond or the sum of the pledge of assets shall be of the value equal to or
greater than the amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of the deposit
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 1-914)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-714, 16-715
§ 33.38 MAXIMUM DEPOSIT PER BANK.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank, capital stock
financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution at any time
more than:
      (1)   The amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution if the
bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution giving a personal bond;
or
      (2)   More than the amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the bond of such bank,
capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution, and the amount so on deposit any time with any such bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution shall
not in either case exceed the amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of
such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss sustained by
reason of the failure of any bonded depository whose bond shall have been duly
approved by the Mayor as herein provided, or which has, in lieu of a surety
bond, deposited approved securities as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 1-915)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-716
§ 33.39 INVESTMENTS AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the City Treasurer may and is hereby authorized, to invest the surplus funds in
the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the city, bonds and debentures
issued either singly or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the
12 intermediate credit banks, or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the
supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or
the obligations of the United States. The interest on such bonds or warrants
shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or warrants were
purchased.
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may and the City
Treasurer is hereby authorized, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or
obligations of the United States.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the City has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Treasurer may and is hereby is authorized, invest any
such surplus in excess of current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
State Investment Officer is authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska
Capital Expansion Act and the Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as
provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (C)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
Statutory reference:
   City funds; deposits, transfers, see Neb. RS 16-712 through 16-721
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 77-2341
CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS
§ 33.50 CONTRACT APPROPRIATIONS.
   No contract shall be made by the City Council or any committee or member
thereof and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or departments
of the city, whether the object of the expenditure is ordered by the City
Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been previously made
concerning the expense, except as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-918)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-501
§ 33.51 CONTRACT VOTE.
   On the passage or adoption of every resolution or order to enter into a
contract, or accepting of work done under contract, by the Mayor or Council,
the "yeas" and "nays" shall be called and entered upon the record. To pass or
adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or any resolution or order, a concurrence of a
majority of the whole number of the members elected to the Council shall be
required.
(Prior Code, § 1-919)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-503, 19-615
§ 33.52 FAIR LABOR STANDARDS.
   In awarding contracts for public works, all contractors bidding shall be
required to file with the city a statement that they are complying with, and
will continue to comply with, fair labor standards in the pursuit of his or her
business and in the execution of the contract on which he or she is bidding.
There shall be written into each and every contract for public works, in
addition to, such other provisions as are necessary and prescribed by law, a
provision that in the execution of the contract fair labor standards shall be
maintained.
(Prior Code, § 1-923)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 73-102
§ 33.53 WARRANT PAYMENT.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make payment by issuance of warrant
check on city accounts for expenses properly due and payable in accord with the
adopted budget for the fiscal year and the annual appropriation ordinance.
Warrant checks drawn on city accounts will bear the signature of the City
Manager and the City Treasurer. Requests for payment shall be reviewed and
payments made in accordance with the city Manual of Accounting Procedure. An
itemized list of warrants issued, to whom and the amount paid, shall be
published in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-917)
§ 33.54 UNCOLLECTED DEBTS.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to dismiss and write off all
uncollected debts owed to the city of an amount of $200 or less after all
reasonable efforts to collect the debt have been made without result. All
uncollectible debts owed to the city in an amount greater than $200 shall be
presented to the City Council for consideration and dismissal after all
reasonable efforts to collect the debt have failed.
   (B)   Each year in August, the City Manager shall present to the Council an
itemized report of all uncollectible debts dismissed by the City Manager during
the preceding fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-927) (Ord. 2007-2789, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Whenever any section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a
violation of that section shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000,
in which case a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Exceptions to regulations
Purchasing Agent
   
34.15   Appointment of agent
   
34.16   Duties and responsibilities
Purchasing Procedure
   
34.30   Formal contract purchase
   
34.31   Informal purchase
   
34.32   Non-competitive purchasing
   
34.33   Emergency purchase
   
34.34   Verification of encumbered funds
   
34.35   Professional service procurement
Travel Expenses
   
34.40   Miscellaneous and travel expenditures
Conduct of City Employees
   
34.50   Employee requisitions
   
34.51   Conflict of interest
   
34.52   Gifts and rebates prohibited
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Purchasing Ordinance of
the City of McCook".
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BID. All bids and proposals.
   CITY. The City of McCook, Nebraska.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Work performed by an independent contractor requiring
specialized knowledge, experience, expertise, or similar capabilities wherein
the service rendered does not consist primarily of acquisition of supplies,
materials, and equipment. The services may include (by way of illustration, not
limitation) services such as maintenance of buildings or equipment, employee
training, postage, equipment service contracts, rental of equipment and
machinery, and cleaning services. The term shall not include professional
services, as defined in this chapter, or other contractual services which are
in their nature unique and not subject to competition such as public utility
services, telephone, and cable services.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. All architect, engineering, accounting, legal,
medical, and consultant services.
   SUPPLIES. All supplies, materials, and equipment.
   USING AGENCY. Any department, division, commission, or other unit in the
city using supplies, procuring contractual services, or procuring professional
services as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.03 EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS.
   Insofar as the authority of the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, is
concerned, this chapter shall not apply to construction contracts for state or
federally funded programs that mandate a different contracting procedure.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
PURCHASING AGENT
§ 34.15 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall be the Purchasing Agent of
the city.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.16 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A) The Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, shall have the
responsibility:
      (1)   To purchase or contract for all supplies, equipment, and
contractual services needed by any using agency which derives its support
wholly or in part from the city, in accordance with procedures as prescribed by
city ordinance and such rules and regulations as the Purchasing Agent, or his
or her designee, shall adopt for the internal management and operation of the
purchasing functions;
      (2)   To procure for the city the highest quality in supplies, equipment,
and contractual services at the least expense to the city, to discourage
uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open competition as possible
on all purchases and sales, and to establish and amend, when necessary, all
rules and regulations authorized by city ordinance and any others necessary to
its operations;
      (3)   To explore the possibilities of purchasing "in bulk", so as to take
full advantage of discounts, to procure for the city all tax exemptions to
which it is entitled, and to secure for the city the maximum efficiency in
budgeting and accounting;
      (4)   To prescribe and maintain such forms as shall be reasonably
necessary to the operation of purchasing, and to prepare and adopt standard
purchasing terms for city departments, divisions, agencies and suppliers;
      (5)   To prepare, or cause to be prepared, written specifications of all
standard supplies;
      (6)   To have the authority to declare vendors who default on their
quotation irresponsible vendors and to disqualify them from receiving any
business from the city for a stated period of time; and
      (7)   To keep informed on current developments in the field of
purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products, and secure for the city
the benefits of research done in the field of purchasing by other governmental
jurisdictions having national recognition and by private businesses and
organizations.
   (B)   All departments shall submit to the Purchasing Agent, or his or her
designee, at such time and in such form as he or she shall prescribe, reports
showing stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which have become
obsolete, worn out, or scrapped.
   (C)   The Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, shall have the authority
to sell or dispose of all surplus supplies and equipment of less than $20,000
in value which have become unsuitable or unnecessary for public use. The
Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, shall sell or dispose of the property
by any method which is most advantageous to the city, including auction, sealed
bid, private or public sale, trade-in for other property, or disposal at the
landfill. All sales of equipment or supplies of $20,000 or more in value shall
require the prior approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 34.30 FORMAL CONTRACT PURCHASE.
   (A)   When the estimated cost of supplies, equipment, or contractual
services exceeds $30,000, no formal contract for purchase shall be authorized
until the contract has been reviewed by the City Attorney, and without prior
approval of the City Council. All supplies, equipment, and contractual services
in this category shall be purchased by formal written contract, from the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder, after due notice inviting bids.
   (B)   Notice inviting bids shall be published once in at least one official
newspaper in the city and at least seven days preceding the last day set for
the receipt of bids. The notice shall include a general description of the
items to be purchased, and shall state where bid blanks and specifications may
be secured, and the date, time and place for opening bids. The city shall also
endeavor to distribute bid documents to responsible prospective suppliers of
whom the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, may be aware.
   (C)   When deemed necessary, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public
notice inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to a return of
surety required. The successful bidder shall forfeit his or her bid deposit
upon failure on his or her part to enter a contract within ten days after the
award.
   (D)   Bids shall be submitted sealed to the City Clerk and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in public on the date
and at the time and place stated in the public notices. A tabulation of all
bids received shall be available for public inspection.
      (1)   The City Council shall have the authority to reject all bids, parts
of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or contractual services
included in the proposed contract, when the public interest will be served
thereby.
      (2)   If the city receives fewer than two on a contract, or if the bids
received contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the governing body
may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed enlargement or
general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
      (3)   The City Council shall have the authority to not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other
monies due the city.
   (E)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible and responsive
bidder. In determining "lowest responsible bidder", in addition to price, the
City Council shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract required;
      (2) The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
      (3)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract within the time
specified;
      (4)   The quality of performance of previous contracts;
      (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract;
      (6)   The life-cost of the personal property in relation to the purchase
price and specific use of the item;
      (7)   The performance of the personal property, taking into consideration
any commonly accepted tests and standards of product usability and user
requirements;
      (8)   Energy efficiency ratio as stated by the bidder for alternative
choices of appliances or equipment;
      (9)   The information furnished by each bidder when deemed applicable by
the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, concerning life-cycle costs
between alternatives for all classes of equipment, evidence of expected life,
repair and maintenance costs, and energy consumption on a per-year basis; and
      (10)   Such other information as may be secured having a bearing on the
decision to award the contract.
   (F)   A RESPONSIVE BIDDER shall be defined as a person or company who has
submitted a bid that conforms in all material respects to the "invitation for
bids".
   (G)   When the award is not given to the lowest bidder, a full and complete
statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall be prepared by
the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, and filed with other papers
relating to the transaction.
   (H)   No contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargements or general
improvements, such as (by way of illustration, not limitation) water/sewer main
extensions, street improvements, park improvements, or airport improvements,
shall be awarded by the City Council until the plans/specifications and
estimate of the cost are approved by the City Council.
   (I)   Except in the case of tie bids, there shall be neither formal nor
tacit local vendor's preference policies. The city shall neither impose nor
condone any bidding or procurement policies that result in exclusionary or
anti-competitive bidding or violate state or federal antitrust laws. If all
bids received are for the same total amount or unit price, quality and service
being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a local bidder. Where there is no
local bidder or when two or more local bidders are equal, the Purchasing Agent,
or his or her designee, shall award the contract to one of the tie bidders by
drawing lots in public.
   (J)   The city, whenever applicable, may, by the use of purchasing under a
state contract, purchase supplies, equipment, or services without the necessity
of using the formal bid requirements as set forth in this section.
   (K)   The Purchasing Agent, or his/her designee, shall have the authority to
join with other units of government in cooperative purchasing of supplies,
equipment or services when the best interests of the city would be served
thereby.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012; Ord. 2019-
2990, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 34.31 INFORMAL PURCHASE.
   (A)   When the estimated cost of supplies, equipment or contractual services
is less than $30,000, the purchase shall be made in the open market, without
newspaper advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed for the
award of formal contracts in this chapter and shall be referred to as open
market purchases. All such purchases shall be awarded by the Purchasing Agent,
or his or her designee.
   (B)   All open market purchases greater than $2,500 and not more than
$30,000 shall be acquired after solicitation of two quotations. Purchases
provided for under this subsection should be made from the "lowest responsible
and responsive bidder", in accordance with the same criteria established in
this chapter for the formal contract procedure.
   (C)   All open market purchases of $2,500 or less may be made without the
necessity of soliciting two quotations.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, may solicit open market
quotes by direct mail request to prospective vendors, by public notice on the
bulletin board at City Hall, by telephone, by facsimile transmission, by
electronic mail, or other electronic means.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.32 NON-COMPETITIVE PURCHASING.
   A contract may be awarded without competition when the Purchasing Agent, or
his or her designee, determines that there is only one source for the required
supplies, materials, or contractual services. The Purchasing Agent, or his or
her designee, shall conduct negotiations, as appropriate, as to price,
delivery, and terms.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.33 EMERGENCY PURCHASE.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency which requires immediate purchase of
supplies or contractual services, the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee,
shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any supplies or contractual services.
   (B)   EMERGENCY shall be defined as any event that interrupts the normal
administration of city services, thereby jeopardizing the life, health or
convenience of citizens.
   (C)   Should an emergency situation arise on a weekend or holiday, and where
it is not possible or convenient to reach the Purchasing Agent, or his or her
designee, any purchase necessary shall be made by the department in charge and
the purchase reported to the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee, without
delay.
   (D)   A report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed
by the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee. Purchases in excess of $30,000
shall be forwarded to the City Council for confirmation.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.34 VERIFICATION OF ENCUMBERED FUNDS.
   Except in cases of emergency, the Purchasing Agent, or his or her designee,
shall not issue any order for delivery on a contract or open market purchase
until it has been certified, after pre-audit, that there is sufficient
unencumbered appropriation balance to the credit of the using agency or
department, in excess of all unpaid obligations, to defray the amount of the
orders.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 34.35 PROFESSIONAL SERVICE PROCUREMENT.
   For the purpose of procuring professional services, any using agency
requiring the services may procure them on its own behalf. A using agency
procuring the services shall consult with the Purchasing Agent, or his or her
designee. No contract for professional services exceeding $30,000 may be
awarded until the contract has been reviewed by the City Attorney, and without
the prior approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
TRAVEL EXPENSES
§ 34.40 MISCELLANEOUS AND TRAVEL EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The expenditure of public funds is hereby subject, pursuant to the
State of Nebraska Local Government Miscellaneous Expenditure Act, to the
following:
      (1)   Authorized expenses may include:
         (a)   Registration costs, tuition costs, fees or charges;
         (b)   Mileage at the then current rate allowed by Neb. RS 81-1176, or
actual travel expense if travel is by commercial or charter means. In-state
mileage shall be calculated by using the Official State Highway Map Mileage
Chart, plus five miles per each day, or part thereof, that the person is
engaged in city business. Out-of-state travel will be at actual odometer
readings. When travel mode is optional, the lower of the reimbursable cost is
authorized;
         (c)   1.   Meals for travel requiring an overnight trip, at the then
current rate of the applicable federal per diem (no receipts necessary), or
pro-rata, based on the current rate of the applicable federal per diem for:
               a.   Breakfast;
               b.   Lunch; or
               c.   Dinner.
            2.   Actual receipts may be substituted for per diem when the total
meal expenses for the trip exceeds the per diem. Banquets, lunches and other
meals included in the registration fee or prepaid with the conference will be
deducted from the per-diem rate;
         (d)   When required to travel away from home overnight, and traveling
includes a partial day on the departure day or a partial day on the return day,
departures must occur prior to 6:00 a.m. for breakfast per diem and return must
be after 8:00 p.m. for supper per diem; and
         (e)   Other transportation, lodging and miscellaneous expenses at
actual cost upon the submission of proper vouchers/receipts.
      (2)   Authorized expenditures shall not include expenditures for meals of
City Council members provided while attending a public meeting of the City
Council unless such meeting is a joint meeting with one or more other governing
bodies.
      (3)   Authorized expenditures shall not include expenditures for any
expenses incurred by a spouse of an elected or appointed official, employee, or
volunteer unless the spouse is also an elected or appointed official, employee,
or volunteer of the city.
   (B)   The expenditure of public funds is hereby authorized, pursuant to the
State of Nebraska Local Government Miscellaneous Expenditure Act, for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Nonalcoholic beverages provided to individuals attending public
meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   Nonalcoholic beverages and meals:
         (a)   Provided for any individuals while performing or immediately
after performing relief, assistance, or support activities in emergency
situations, including, but not limited to, tornado, severe storm, fire or
accident;
         (b)   Provided for any volunteers during or immediately following
their participation in any activity approved by the City Council, including,
but not limited to, mowing parks, picking up litter, removing graffiti or snow
removal;
         (c)   Provided at one recognition dinner each year held for elected
and appointed officials, employees, or volunteers. The maximum cost per person
for such dinner shall not exceed $50. The annual recognition dinner may be held
separately for employees of each department or separately for volunteers, or
any of them in combination.
      (3)   Plaques, certificates of achievement, or items of value awarded to
elected or appointed officials, employees, or volunteers, including persons
serving on local government boards or commissions, are subject to a $300-limit
on value. This amount shall not be amended or altered more than once in any 12-
month period. This amount may be amended by resolution, only after a public
hearing has been held.
   (C)   The following procedures shall be used for business travel:
      (1)   Transportation method. When travel is by air, advance ticketing
will be utilized whenever possible to obtain the lowest available coach fare.
      (2)   Lodging.
         (a)   Reimbursement for non-commercial lodging is not permitted.
         (b)   When city personnel are accompanied by non-city personnel, only
the costs attributed to the city personnel are reimbursable.
      (3)   Expenses.
         (a)   The following expenses are reimbursable upon submission of paid
receipts: parking fees; taxi fares; shuttle fares; bus fares; highway tolls;
registration fees; lodging; tuition fees; supplies or equipment required for
travel or training; rental cars; fees for official functions related to travel
and traveler's checks fees.
         (b)   The following expenses are not reimbursable: entertainment,
including television rentals; personal expenses, such as, hygiene items,
laundry, magazines; travel insurance and alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   Travel advances. Employees shall receive approval by the City
Manager for any trip, and any travel advance, before departing and before
incurring any expenses (including prepaid transportation, lodging expenses, and
registration fees). Travel advances will only be authorized when employees are
required to travel away from home overnight. All travel expenses require the
approval of the department head and City Manager.
      (5)   Expense claims.
         (a)   Personnel on authorized travel must submit expense claims to the
Finance Administrative Assistant Department immediately upon return, but not
later than ten working days after return to duty.
         (b)   All receipts, unexpended city funds, and funds due the city,
shall be returned at that time.
         (c)   All expenses (including prepaid expenses) shall be summarized
and accounted for on a "Report of Expense" form.
(Ord. 2008-2814, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 2022-3034, passed 2-21-2022; Ord. 2023-
3059, passed 2-20-2023)
CONDUCT OF CITY EMPLOYEES
§ 34.50 EMPLOYEE REQUISITIONS.
   Insofar as the sale or purchasing procedures of this policy are concerned,
the following authority structure shall apply. Every city employee shall
requisition for supplies, equipment, or contractual services only with the
approval of the employee’s department or division head or duly authorized
representative.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.51 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any purchase or contract within the purview of this chapter in which the
Purchasing Agent, or any other city employee, is financially interested,
directly or indirectly, shall be void, except that before the execution of a
purchase or contract, the City Council shall have the authority to waive
compliance with this section when it finds the action to be in the best
interest of the city.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.52 GIFTS AND REBATES PROHIBITED.
   Any city employee is expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or
indirectly, from any person, company, firm, or corporation to which any
purchase order or contract is or might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or
anything of value whatsoever, except where given for the use and benefit of the
city.
(Ord. 2007-2787, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 34.99 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Whenever any section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a
violation of that section shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000,
in which case a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201) (Ord. 2012-2873, passed 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 35: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Commissions
   
35.001   Planning Commission
   
35.002   Airport Advisory Commission
Community Development Agency
   
35.015   Agency established
Boards
   
35.030   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
35.031   Library Advisory Board
   
35.032   Senior Citizens Advisory Board
   
35.033   Parks Advisory Board
   
35.034   Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board
   
35.035   Tree Advisory Board
Board of Health
   
35.045   Establishment
   
35.046   Authority to regulate
   
35.047   Quarantine Officer
   
35.048   State rules adopted by reference
   
35.049   Cooperation with County Health Board
 
Housing Agency
   
35.075   Agency created
   
35.076   Board of Commissioners
   
35.077   Removal of Commissioner
   
35.078   Agency autonomy
   
35.079   Housing Agency Act adopted by reference
   
35.080   Authority of Agency
   
35.081   Annual report
   
35.082   Plans to be filed
Problem Resolution Team
   
35.095   Problem Resolution Team
Land Bank
   
35.100   Definition
   
35.101   Interlocal agreement
   
35.102   Board members; voting; qualifications
   
35.103   Board members; nonvoting
   
35.104   Vacancy
 
   
35.999   Penalty
COMMISSIONS
§ 35.001 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the city
exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular
member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in
the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, and no
such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available
vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an
individual.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of residents shall
mean 1,000 residents. The term of each regular member shall be three years,
except that three regular members of the first Commission shall serve for terms
of one year, three for terms of two years, and three for terms of three years.
All regular members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any
member may, after a public hearing before the City Council, be removed by the
Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other
good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Mayor.
   (C)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other city office except when appointed to serve on the Board
of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the Commission may
be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give bond in a sum set
by resolution of the Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Commission shall elect its Chairperson and a Secretary from
its members and create and fill other offices as it may determine. The term of
the Chairperson and the Secretary shall be one year, and they shall be eligible
for reelection. No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and
to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours. The Commission shall be funded by the City
Council from time to time out of the General Fund. The expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the City Council, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of those amounts.
   (D)   A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each calendar quarter, except the City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission's judgment,
bear relation to the planning of the city, and shall carry out the other duties
and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS 19-929.
   (E)   All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The Commission shall make its
recommendations to the City Council so that they are received by the City
Council within 30 days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning. The
Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
other duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate.
   (F)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city
office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she
shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The
alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 99-2514, passed 4-15-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
§ 35.002 AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a City Airport Advisory Board to be known as the
McCook Municipal Airport Advisory Commission. The Airport Advisory Commission
shall consist of seven members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
consent of the City Council. Members shall serve for a period of three years
from and after their date of appointment, provided that initial terms shall be
shortened in order to provide for staggered terms with two terms ending at the
end of the first year, two terms ending at the end of the second year, and
three terms ending at the end of the third year. Members shall be appointed
from among users of the Airport or consumers of aeronautical services at the
Airport, provided that one position on the Board shall be reserved for
appointment of a representative to represent the Fixed Base Operator operating
on the airport.
   (B)   No compensation shall be paid to any member of the Airport Advisory
Commission. Members of the Airport Advisory Commission may be removed from
their office by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council as may be deemed
necessary and appropriate. Vacancies on the Airport Advisory Commission
occurring otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
   (C)   The Airport Advisory Commission shall meet at least three times a
year, and at other times as it may deem necessary. All meetings shall be
publicly advertised and open to the public.
   (D)   At its annual meeting, which shall fall in the month of September of
each year, the Airport Advisory Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and Secretary from among its members to serve in the respective
capacities for the following year, provided that the member appointed to
represent the fixed base operator may not be nominated or elected to the office
of Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson of the Commission. All officers and members
may succeed themselves upon appropriate appointment or election. The Commission
may adopt any rules and governing procedures for the transaction of business as
it may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (E)   The Airport Advisory Commission shall consider all matters concerning
the McCook City Airport referred to it by the City Council or the City Manager.
The Commission shall review the matters and make studies as it may deem
necessary and appropriate and shall tender recommendations to the originator of
the request. These matters may include, but are not limited to, physical plant
planning, rules and regulations for use of the airport, airport maintenance and
operational considerations. Each year on or before June 1, the Airport Advisory
Commission shall review and make recommendations to the City Manager with
regard to the upcoming budget for the McCook Municipal Airport.
   (F)   The Airport Advisory Commission shall have no authority to enter into
financial obligations or expend funds of any kind, but the city may provide
funds for use by the Commission as it shall deem necessary and appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-105) (Ord. 91-2012, passed 10-21-1991)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
§ 35.015 AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01 a Community
Development Agency for the city.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council of the city are hereby designated to be the
Community Development Agency for the city.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city shall be the Chairperson of the Community
Development Agency, the Vice-President of the City Council shall be the Vice-
Chairperson, and the City Clerk shall be the Secretary of the Community
Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise the power and authority granted to a community redevelopment authority
under Neb. RS 18-2101` to 18-2144. The Community Development Agency shall also
have the power and authority to do all community development activities, and to
do all things necessary to cooperate with the federal government in all matters
relating to community development program activities as a grantee, or as an
agent or otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, as amended through the Housing and Community
Development Amendments of 1981. The Community Development Agency may levy taxes
for the exercise of this jurisdiction and authority and may issue general
obligation bonds, general obligation notes, revenue bonds, and revenue notes,
including those general obligation and revenue refunding bonds and notes for
the purposes set forth in the sections and under the powers granted to any
community redevelopment authority described therein.
   (E)    All of the rights and property, both real and personal of the
existing Community Redevelopment Authority of the city, and all obligations,
including leases, bonds, redevelopment contracts, agreements and other evidence
of debt of the Authority, are hereby transferred to and assumed by the City
Community Development Agency, created pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2006-2764, passed 2-20-2006)
BOARDS
§ 35.030 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Zoning Adjustment. The word
BOARD, when used in the Zoning Ordinance, shall be construed to mean the Board
of Zoning Adjustment. The Board of Zoning Adjustment is appointed by the City
Council and shall consist of five regular members, plus one additional member
designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of the
regular members is unable to attend for any reason. One member only of the city
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be appointed by the City Council from
membership of the Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in the immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Zoning Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. At least one member of
the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The members appointed shall serve for terms of three years and be
removable for cause by the City Council upon written charges and after public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall annually in October elect one of
its members as Chairperson, another as Vice-Chairperson, who shall act as
Chairperson in the Chairperson's absence, and appoint a Secretary, who may be
an officer or an employee of the city. Each shall serve until his or her
successor has been selected. The presence of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to constitute a quorum.
   (D)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as
the Board may determine. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating the fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt from time to time any
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary, to carry the appropriate
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance into effect and all of its resolutions and
order shall be in accordance therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) (Ord. 2017-2949, passed 6-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910
§ 35.031 LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Advisory Board shall be chosen by appointment by a
majority vote of the members of the City Council. The Board shall consist of
five members who shall be residents of the city. The members of the Library
Advisory Board shall serve a four-year term of office. In case of vacancies by
resignation, removal, illness or any other reason, the City Council shall
immediately appoint a new member to the Board for the unexpired vacated term.
The Board shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   At the time of the Board's first meeting in October of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with
the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at times as the City Council
may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson,
or any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The members of the Board shall have powers and perform duties as may
be conferred upon and required of them by the City Council. The Board is an
advisory board, thus having only those powers and duties to advise and
recommend to the City Council, City Manager, and Library Director as are
granted to it by the City Council. It shall be the duty of the Board to advise
the City Council on the establishment of appropriate rules and regulations for
the management, operation, and use of the same.
   (D)   No member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Library
Advisory Board while serving a term of office as a member of the City Council.
No member of the Library Advisory Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-110) (Ord. 2007-2794, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 35.032 SENIOR CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the Council, shall appoint the Senior Citizens
Advisory Board. The Board shall consist of seven members who are residents of
the city. The members shall represent, insofar as is feasible, different
interests and occupations. The members of the Board shall serve a two-year term
of office unless reappointed. Two members of the Board shall be appointed or
reappointed in each even-numbered year and three members of the Board shall be
appointed or reappointed in each odd-numbered year. Each Board member so
appointed shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (B)   Any Board member may be removed from office for the causes and in the
manner prescribed by law. Two members of the original Board shall be appointed
for a one-year term and three members for a two-year term. The Board shall
serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the
governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing
body, and conditioned upon the faithful performances of their duties.
   (C)   At its annual October meeting, the Board shall organize by selecting
from its membership a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be
the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of
all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Senior Citizens
Advisory Board shall be funded by the governing body from time to time out of
the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet quarterly. Special meetings may
be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two members of the Board. All
meetings shall be publicly advertized and open to the public.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Board to advise the City Council on the
Senior Citizens Center and Senior Public Transit and other issues concerning
senior citizens in the community. The Board shall be responsible for making
reports and performing other duties as the governing body may, from time to
time, designate. No member of the Senior Citizens Advisory Board shall serve in
the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-111) (Ord. 1684, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 2015-2917, passed 7-
20-2015)
§ 35.033 PARKS ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Parks Advisory Board to be known as the
"McCook Parks Advisory Board".
   (B)   The Parks Advisory Board shall consist of five members, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Members shall
serve for a period of three years from and after the date of their appointment,
provided that initial terms shall be shortened in order to provide for
staggered terms with one term ending at the end of the first year, two terms
ending at the end of the second year, and two terms ending at the end of the
third year. Members shall be appointed from among the citizens at large of the
city; provided, no member of the City Council shall be eligible for membership
on the Board while holding the office of Council member.
   (C)   No compensation shall be paid to any members of the Parks Advisory
Board. Members of the Parks Advisory Board may be removed from their office by
the Mayor with the consent of the City Council as may be deemed necessary and
appropriate. Vacancies on the Parks Advisory Board occurring otherwise than by
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor with the
consent of the City Council.
   (D)   The Parks Advisory Board shall meet in April of each year, and at
other times as the Board by its own rules shall determine. A majority of the
Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting business.
All meetings shall be publicly advertised and open to the public.
   (E)   At its annual April meeting, the Parks Advisory Board shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from among its members to serve in that
capacity for the following year. The Public Works Director, or his or her
designee, shall be ex-officio the Secretary of the Board, but shall not be a
member of the Board. The Secretary shall keep a true and complete record of the
proceedings of the Board, and shall file same with the City Clerk. All officers
and members may succeed themselves upon appropriate appointment or election.
The Board may adopt rules and governing procedures for the transaction of
business as may be deemed necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   The Parks Advisory Board shall consider all matters concerning the
city's parks and recreational facilities referred to it by the City Council or
the City Manager. The Board shall review the matters and make studies as they
may deem necessary and appropriate and shall tender recommendations to the
originator of the request. The matters may include, but are not limited to,
matters concerning future parkland acquisition and development, rules and
regulations for use of the parks and recreational facilities, and maintenance
and operational considerations. Each year, on or before June 1, the Parks
Advisory Board shall submit to the Mayor and City Council a report on the
status of the parks and associated recreational facilities.
   (G)   The Parks Advisory Board shall have no authority to enter into
financial obligations or expend funds of any kind, but the city may provide
funds for use by the Board as it shall deem necessary and appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-112) (Ord. 1835, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 35.034 BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Building and Housing Code Advisory and
Appeals Board consisting of five members, and such Building and Housing Code
Advisory and Appeals Board shall hereinafter be referred to as the Board of
Appeals. Membership on the Board of Appeals shall consist of one engineer,
architect, or building designer, one master plumber, one member qualified to
perform mechanical work, one member who works as a general contractor, and one
citizen of the city who is not an employee of the city.
   (B)   The members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the
City Council for terms of four years each. Three of the members specified above
shall be initially appointed to two-year terms. Two of the above listed members
shall be initially appointed to four-year terms. Each two years thereafter, new
members shall be appointed, replacing those members whose terms have expired.
Members may succeed themselves if so appointed. In September of every even
numbered year after the date of adoption of this section, the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint the required members to the Board.
Vacancies on the Board of Appeals shall be filled by appointment for the
unexpired term only. The Board of Appeals shall annually select one of its
members to serve as chairperson. The Building Inspector shall be a permanent
secretary of the Board and shall keep a record of all meetings.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall conduct examinations and pass upon
qualifications of persons coming before the Board requesting issuance of
licenses to conduct plumbing or other work for which a license is required
within the city. The Board shall act in an advisory capacity to the Building
Official and Code Official concerning matters of code interpretation and
evaluation of circumstances and situations relating to code enforcement. The
Board of Appeals shall exercise other powers and duties as are conferred upon
it in the municipal code.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions and
recommendations in writing to the City Manager. One copy of the rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (E)   The Board of Appeals shall meet at the call of the City Manager or
upon a written request signed by two or more of its members and filed with the
secretary. The City Manager shall refer all properly and timely filed appeals
to the Board of Appeals for hearing. The City Manager shall in each appeal
notify the appellant in writing of the date, time, and place of hearing before
the Board, which shall be no later than 30 days from the filing of the appeal.
The notice shall be served upon the appellant by personal service or registered
mail.
   (F)   Hearings on appeal need not be conducted according to technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath
or affirmation. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of
evidence upon which responsible persons are accustomed to rely upon in the
conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or
statutory rule which may make improper the admission of the evidence over
objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. The appellant,
the City Manager, and any other party to an appeal hereunder shall have these
rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      (3)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing; and
      (4)   To rebut the evidence against him or her.
   (G)   The Board of Appeals shall then, within a reasonable time after the
hearing, render a written decision which shall state its findings and
conclusions. Decisions of the Board may be appealed as provided by law.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided in this municipal code, enforcement of
any decision, notice, or order of the Building Official or Code Official that
is the subject of an appeal shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal
therefrom which is properly and timely filed, except in cases of emergency,
where enforcement of the same is necessary for the protection of life, limb, or
property.
(Ord. 2005-2739, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 35.035 TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Advisory Board to
be known as the "McCook Tree Advisory Board".
   (B)   The Tree Advisory Board shall consist of five members, citizens and
residents of the city who shall be appointed by the Mayor upon ratification by
the Council. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
five years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only two years. All subsequent terms shall be five years in
length. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member,
his successor shall be appointed in a manner provided for above for the
unexpired portion of the members term. Members of the Advisory Board shall
serve without compensation.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Advisory Board to study and
investigate the tree stock and community forestry situation in the community.
Findings of such study investigations shall be compiled into a report which
shall be presented to the Council. Such report shall be reviewed from time to
time and updated as the Advisory Board may deem necessary.
   (D)   Based on the findings in the report the Advisory Board shall develop a
long range Community Forestry Program including regulatory as well as action
elements. Such programs shall be presented to the Council and upon approval and
adoption by the Council shall constitute the official Comprehensive Community
Tree Plan for the City of McCook, Nebraska.
   (E)   The Advisory Board shall annually review and update, if needed, the
Comprehensive Community Tree Plan. In addition, the Board shall prepare and
present an annual work plan to the City Council in May of each year for their
consideration in preparing the budget for the succeeding fiscal year. As a part
of the annual work plan, the Board shall give a report on the status of the
tree stock and community forestry situation in McCook.
   (F)   The Advisory Board when requested by the City Council shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of community forestry for the City of McCook,
Nebraska, and its surrounding environs.
   (G)   The Advisory Board shall meet at least four times each year with an
annual meeting being held in October at which the Board shall elect a chairman
and vice-chairman, and a secretary for the Board. Such officers shall serve one
year from the date at which they will take office in October at the annual
meeting. The Advisory Board shall keep a record of its proceedings and business
meeting. A majority of the members shall be a quorum sufficient for the
transaction of business. In addition, the Advisory Board shall adopt such rules
and regulations for conducting business as may be deemed appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 2-107) (Ord. 2012-2885, passed 10-1-2012)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 35.045 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of five members. The members of the Board shall include the President of the
City Council, who shall serve as Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve
as Secretary and Quarantine Officer; a physician, who shall serve as the
Medical Advisor, and the City Manager and one other member. The members of the
Board shall serve, without compensation, a one-year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June of each year. It
shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall be funded by the governing body from time to
time out of the General Fund.
   (C)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules
and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard
the health of the residents of the city. Included in the duties of the Board
shall be to enforce the rules and regulations, and to provide fines and
punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent
the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the state
and ordinances of the city relating to matters of sanitation which affect the
health and safety of the people.
   (D)   The Board shall regularly inspect premises and businesses as the
governing body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for
making reports and performing other duties as the governing body may, from time
to time, designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one
Board of Health position.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 35.046 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt rules and regulations
relative thereto and shall make inspections, prescribe penalties, and make
reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 35.047 QUARANTINE OFFICER.
   The city Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the city. It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body
and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the city and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 35.048 STATE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, Department of Health of
the state, are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are applicable to
the city, in their present form and as they may hereafter be amended. Three
copies of the pamphlet are filed at the office of the City Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 35.049 COOPERATION WITH COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
HOUSING AGENCY
§ 35.075 AGENCY CREATED.
   The previously created and existing Housing Authority shall continue to
exist as a Housing Agency under the state Housing Agency Act and shall
hereafter conduct its operation consistent with the Act. It shall be named the
Housing Agency, and all property, rights and land, buildings, records and
equipment, and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of the Housing
Authority shall belong to the Housing Agency as successor. All obligations,
debts, commitments, and liabilities of the Housing Authority shall become
obligations, debts, commitments, and liabilities of the Housing Agency. Any
previously passed Resolutions of the Housing Authority, and any actions taken
by the Housing Authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project
or program which is to be completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month
period following January 1, 2000, and which resolution or action is lawful
under state law as it exists to the operative date of LB-105, shall be a lawful
resolution or action of the Housing Agency, binding upon and enforceable by or
against the Housing Agency, not withstanding that such resolution or action is
inconsistent with, not authorized, or prohibited under the provisions of the
state Housing Agency Act. All commissioners of the Housing Authority and all
officers, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees of
the Housing Authority holding office or employment by virtue of any prior law
on January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under
the state Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.076 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to confirmation by the Council,
five persons who, including the Resident Commissioner, if any, shall constitute
the Housing Agency Board, and such persons shall be called the Commissioners.
One Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed and
qualified, provided that all vacancies shall be filled for the un-expired
terms. The Council may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of the Housing Agency for such term as the Council may determine. No
person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area
of McCook Housing Agency.
      (2)   A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner shall be filed with the City Clerk, and the certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of the Commissioner. The
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties as provided by Neb. RS 81-1175
through 81-1177.
      (3)   A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the agency
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the agency upon the vote of the majority
of the Commissioners present and voting, unless the by-laws of the agency or
the ordinance creating the agency require a larger number. The Commissioners
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and
shall have the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex-
officio Secretary of the Agency. The Agency may also employ legal counsel for
services as it may require. It may employ accountants, appraisers, technical
experts, and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may require and
shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of
office. The Agency may delegate other powers and duties to its agents or
employees, as it may deem proper.
      (4)   During his or her tenure and for one year thereafter, no
Commissioner, officer, or employee of the Housing Agency shall voluntarily
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property
included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or
proposed contract relating to an housing project. If any Commissioner, officer,
or employee involuntarily acquires any interest, or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any interest prior to appointment or employment as
commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or
her interest in writing to the agency, and the disclosure shall be entered upon
the minutes of the agency, and he or she shall not participate in any action by
the agency relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any
interest. Any violation of the provisions of this division shall constitute
misconduct in office. This prohibition shall not apply to the acquisition of
any interest in notes or bonds of the agency issued in connection with any
housing project, or to the execution of the agreements by banking institutions
for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project or to act as
trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which
are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to preclude, regulate, or restrict
the participation of any tenant of the agency from serving, if appointed, as a
Commissioner of the authority, but he or she may not participate in any
decision solely affecting his or her individual interest.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
   (C)   (1)   A fifth Commissioner, to be known as the Resident Commissioner,
shall be appointed to the governing body by the Mayor, subject to confirmation
of the Council. To select the initial Resident Commissioner, or to fill
subsequent vacancies in the position, the Housing Agency shall notify any
Resident Advisory Board or other Resident Organization and all adult persons
directly assisted by the agency to the effect that the position of Resident
Commissioner is open and that if any person is interested in being considered
as a candidate for the position, the person should notify the Housing Agency,
in writing, within 30 days of the person's willingness to be considered and to
serve as Resident Commissioner.
      (2)   The names of all persons interested who have notified the Housing
Agency of their interests in so serving shall be forwarded to the Mayor, and
the Resident Commissioner shall be appointed from the list of names, subject to
confirmation by the Council. Upon the appointment of a Resident Commissioner,
the certificate of appointment shall state the term is for five years or when
no longer an eligible resident, whichever occurs first.
      (3)   In the event that no qualified person has submitted his or her name
to the Housing Agency as being interested as a candidate for the position, and
the Housing Agency has received no notification of interest in serving as a
Resident Commissioner by any person, no Resident Commissioner shall be required
to be selected. In the event a Resident Commissioner is appointed and resigns
from the position prior to completion of the appointed term, or is no longer an
eligible resident, or is otherwise disqualified or removed from the Board, and
a vacancy is created, the Housing Agency shall solicit new candidates for the
position following the same procedure set forth above. In the event that no
Resident Commissioner is selected and the position is not filled, the agency
shall re-notify all adult persons directly assisted by the agency that the
position of Resident Commissioner is open and solicit these persons for
candidates for the position not less than once annually.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
(Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000; Ord. 2007-2795, passed 9-6-2007)
§ 35.077 REMOVAL OF COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty, misconduct in
office, or conviction of any felony, in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The
Mayor shall send a notice of removal to the Commissioner, which notice shall
set forth the charges against him or her. Unless within the ten days from the
receipt of notice, the Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a
hearing before the Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed removed from
office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the Council shall
hold a hearing not sooner than ten days after the date a hearing is requested,
at which time the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by
counsel and the Council shall determine whether the removal shall be upheld. If
the removal is not upheld, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her
office.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.078 AGENCY AUTONOMY.
   The Housing Agency is a political subdivision, independent from the city and
operated by the Housing Agency. The Housing Agency shall constitute a public
body, corporate and politic, and shall have all the powers necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the state
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.079 HOUSING AGENCY ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise herein specifically provided, the definitions, terms,
provisions, and conditions set forth under the state Housing Agency Act are
hereby adopted by reference, as they now exist, or may hereafter be amended,
for the operation and management of the Housing Agency, and the Housing Agency
Commission shall fully comply with and be governed by the terms of the state
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.080 AUTHORITY OF AGENCY.
   (A)   The Housing Agency shall adopt and promulgate fair and equitable
policies establishing a plan for selection of applicants. The plan shall
include standards for eligibility, procedures for prompt notification of
eligibility or disqualification, and procedures for maintaining a waiting list
of eligible applicants for whom vacancies are not immediately available.
Eligible applicants shall be offered available vacancies as provided in the
policies.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (B)   The Housing Agency may adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and
regulations related to carrying out the purposes of the local housing agency
and exercising its powers and to amend to repeal the rules and regulations from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
(Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.081 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Within six months after the end of the Housing Agency's fiscal year, the
Housing Agency shall prepare an annual report. This report shall contain
financial statements and the results of the operations. The report shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners and signed by the Chairperson. The
annual report of the Housing Agency shall be a public record and available for
inspection and copying by members of the general public at the Housing Agency
office. The annual report shall be placed on file with the City Clerk upon
completion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 35.082 PLANS TO BE FILED.
   The Housing Agency shall file with the City Clerk a copy of the five-year
plan and annual plan required by § 511 of The Federal Quality Housing and Work
Responsibility Act of 1998. The plans shall be filed within 30 days after the
date the plan is filed with the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(Prior Code, § 2-210) (Ord. 2000-2545, passed 3-20-2000)
PROBLEM RESOLUTION TEAM
§ 35.095 PROBLEM RESOLUTION TEAM.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council hereby determines it is in the best interest
of the city that a Problem Resolution Team be established to abate nuisances
and mitigate properties that are deteriorating, damaged or substandard, or that
present housing code or building code violations, or health and sanitary
concerns.
   (B)   Organization. The Problem Resolution Team shall consist of at least
four members. These members shall include, but not be limited to, the City
Manager, Building Inspector, City Attorney and a representative from the Police
Department.
   (C)   Function. The function of the Problem Resolution Team is to gather
relevant information, share information among city departments, conduct
appropriate investigations, respond to citizen complaints, identify nuisance
issues, code violations, and other concerns within the city to insure the
health and safety of the public is maintained, and to make recommendations to
the Board of Health and/or land bank for resolution of issues that cannot be
resolved through the mediation process adopted by the Problem Resolution team.
   (D)   Process. The Problem Resolution Team shall receive complaints
submitted by city staff, citizens or other public agencies, conduct appropriate
investigations, refer matters to the Police Department, Fire Department or
Building Inspector for inspection; meet and confer with property owners,
tenants or other citizens and representatives from other agencies to develop
solutions to complaints; direct enforcement of routine code violations such as
weeds or tall grasses by city staff; follow-up on inspections; and agree to
resolutions.
   (E)   Referral. In the event that the Problem Resolution Team is unable to
resolve complaints, the matter shall be referred to the city Board of Health
and/or land bank for enforcement based upon the city code and state statute.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
LAND BANK
§ 35.100 DEFINITION.
   A LAND BANK is a separate legal entity and a public body, corporate and
political subdivision of the state, organized and existing under the provisions
of the Land Bank Act and the Interlocal Cooperation Act.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 35.101 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   The city may elect to enter into a land bank through an interlocal agreement
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 35.102 BOARD MEMBERS; VOTING; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The chief executive officer of the city and the City Council, by a
two-thirds vote, shall select a board member who shall meet at least one of the
following requirements:
      (1)   A representative of the chamber of commerce;
      (2)   Banking experience;
      (3)   Real estate development experience;
      (4)   Realtor experience;
      (5)   Nonprofit or affordable housing experience; or
      (6)   Large-scale residential or commercial property rental experience.
   (B)   The voting member shall be a resident of the city.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 35.103 BOARD MEMBERS; NONVOTING.
   The City Council shall designate, by a majority vote, one of its members and
one other designee of its choice to serve on the land bank’s nonvoting board.
The designee of the City Council’s choice shall be a resident of the city.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 35.104 VACANCY.
   A vacancy on either the voting or nonvoting board shall be filled no later
than six months after the date of the vacancy in the same manner as the
original appointment.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, §§ 1-1201, 2-301, 3-1301)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Occupations Taxed
   
36.01   Amount of tax
   
36.02   Payment due date
   
36.03   Tax certificate
   
36.04   Remedy for failure to pay tax
   
36.05   Exemption from tax
   
36.06   License term; refund
Cross-reference:
   Taxation and Appropriation, see §§
33.20 through
33.25
OCCUPATIONS TAXED
§ 36.01 AMOUNT OF TAX.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is levied on the
businesses set out in the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 38 in the amounts set out therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-1501)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 36.02 PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by any
person or persons to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, and specifying the person paying the tax, and the amount paid. The
revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by
the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all
revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned
shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the
transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-1502)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 36.03 TAX CERTIFICATE.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person, and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible, while business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-1503)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 36.04 REMEDY FOR FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All delinquent
taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-1504)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 36.05 EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   (A)   No occupation tax shall be levied upon any business or occupation
which is done or conducted by any department of the government of the United
States or of the state, or of the officers thereof in the course of their
official duties, or by any county or subdivision of this state or its officers
in the course of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 10-1505)
   (B)   It is hereby declared that the provisions of this chapter shall not
extend to nor affect individuals selling meat, milk, butter, eggs, vegetables,
fruit, hay, grain, or fuel raised or produced by those vendors.
(Prior Code, § 10-1506)
(Ord. 1818, passed 2-16-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205, 16-699
§ 36.06 LICENSE TERM; REFUND.
   Every occupation tax levied at a yearly rate must be paid in one payment,
whether the license is issued at the beginning of the year or at any time
thereafter, but no license shall be issued at the beginning of the year for any
certain time less than the full year. No person paying occupation tax shall be
entitled to a refund of part of the tax so paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-1507)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
CHAPTER 37: CIVIL SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Covered positions
   
37.02   Creation and elimination of positions
   
37.03   Salaries and compensation
   
37.04   Duties and responsibilities of city
   
37.05   Prohibition against political retribution
   
37.06   Obstruction of civil service examinations
Civil Service Commission
   
37.20   Creation of Commission
   
37.21   Appointment of members; term of office
   
37.22   Removal from office
   
37.23   Member compensation
   
37.24   Meetings; quorum
   
37.25   Chairperson
   
37.26   Secretary; Chief Examiner
   
37.27   Powers and duties
Civil Service Regulations
   
37.40   Appointments and promotions
   
37.41   Applicant requirements
   
37.42   Filling vacant positions
   
37.43   Probationary period
   
37.44   Tenure of employment
   
37.45   Causes for disciplinary action
   
37.46   Procedure for disciplinary action
   
37.47   Reduction in force
   
37.48   Leave of absence
Civil Service Retirement Committees
   
37.60   Police Officers' Retirement Committee
   
37.61   Firefighters' Retirement Committee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 COVERED POSITIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply only to all present full-time Firefighters or
full-time Police Officers of the city, including any paid full-time Police or
Fire Chief, and future appointees to such full-time positions.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FULL-TIME FIREFIGHTERS. Duly appointed Firefighters who are paid
regularly by the city and for whom firefighting is a full-time career, but
shall not include clerical, custodial, or maintenance personnel who are not
engaged in fire suppression.
      FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers in positions which require
certification by the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center, who have the
power of arrest, who are paid regularly by the city, and for whom law
enforcement is a full-time career, but shall not include clerical, custodial,
or maintenance personnel.
(Prior Code, § 12-101) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.02 CREATION AND ELIMINATION OF POSITIONS.
   All positions subject to the Civil Service Act shall be created or
eliminated by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.03 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be construed to infringe upon the power and
authority of the City Manager to establish salaries and compensation of all
employees within the compensation schedule or ranges established by the Mayor
and Council for the positions.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
   (B)   No treasurer, auditor, comptroller, or other officer or employee of
the city subject to the Civil Service Act shall approve the payment of or be in
any manner concerned in paying, auditing, or approving any salary, wage, or
other compensation for services to any person subject to the jurisdiction and
scope of the Civil Service Act unless the person to receive the salary, wage,
or other compensation has been appointed or employed in compliance with the
Act.
(Prior Code, § 12-104)
(Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY.
   The Mayor and Council shall provide the Commission with suitable and
convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated,
lighted, and supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry
on the business of the Commission and with clerical assistance as may be
necessary. It shall be the duty of the city to appropriate each fiscal year,
from the general funds of the city, a sum of money sufficient to pay the
necessary expenses involved in carrying out the purposes of the act, including,
but not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees for any special counsel
appointed by the Commission when the City Attorney is not authorized by the
City Manager to represent the Commission. The City Manager may establish the
hourly or monthly rate of pay of special counsel. The city shall afford the
Commission, its members and employees, all reasonable facilities and assistance
to inspect all books, papers, documents, and accounts applying or in any way
appertaining to any and all positions and employments subject to civil service
and shall produce the books, papers, documents, and accounts. All city officers
and employees shall attend and testify whenever required to do so by the
Commission, the accused, or the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 12-105) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST POLITICAL RETRIBUTION.
   No person holding any position subject to civil service shall be under any
obligation to contribute to any political fund or to render any political
service to any person or party whatsoever. No person shall be removed, reduced
in position or salary, or otherwise prejudiced for refusing so to do. No public
officer, whether elected or appointed, shall discharge, promote, demote, or in
any manner change the official rank, employment, or compensation of any person
under civil service, or promise or threaten to do so for giving, withholding,
or neglecting to make any contribution of money, services, or any valuable
thing for any political purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-106) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.06 OBSTRUCTION OF CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS.
   No Commissioner or any other person shall by himself or herself or in
cooperation with one or more persons:
   (A)   Defeat, deceive, or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the Civil
Service Act;
   (B)   Falsely mark, grade, estimate, or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with the act or aid
in so doing;
   (C)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
person examined;
   (D)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined or
certified to be examined or certified; or
   (E)   Persuade any other person to permit or aid in any manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application, or request to be so examined.
(Prior Code, § 12-107) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 37.20 CREATION OF COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created in the city, a Civil Service Commission which shall
have three members who shall each be a citizen of the United States, a resident
of the city for at least three years immediately preceding his or her
appointment, and an elector of the county wherein the person resides.
(Prior Code, § 12-201) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.21 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members of the Civil Service Commission shall be appointed by the
City Manager. At the time of any appointment, not more than three members of
the Civil Service Commission, including the one or ones to be appointed, shall
be registered electors of the same political party. Confirmation of the
appointments by any other legislative body shall not be required.
(Prior Code, § 12-202)
   (B)   The first persons appointed to the Civil Service Commission shall
serve for terms of two years, four years, and six years respectively.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for six years. For purposes of this
section, the Civil Service Commission created hereunder shall be deemed a
continuing entity with regard to the currently existing Civil Service
Commission and terms set accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
(Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.22 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any member of the Civil Service Commission may be removed from office for
incompetency, dereliction of duty, malfeasance in office, or other good cause,
by the City Manager, except that no member of the Civil Service Commission
shall be removed until written charges have been preferred, due notice given
the member, and a full hearing had before the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 12-204) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.23 MEMBER COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Civil Service Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 12-205) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.24 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Civil Service Commission shall hold meetings as may be required
for the proper discharge of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
   (B)   Two members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 12-209)
(Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.25 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Civil Service Commission shall annually elect one of its members as
Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 12-207) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.26 SECRETARY; CHIEF EXAMINER.
   The Civil Service Commission shall appoint a Secretary and a Chief Examiner
who shall keep the records of the Commission, preserve all reports made to it,
superintend and keep a record of all examinations held under its direction, and
perform other duties as the Commission may prescribe. The Commission may merge
the positions of Secretary and Chief Examiner and appoint one person to perform
the duties of both positions. The Commission shall appoint the city's Personnel
Officer as Secretary and Chief Examiner, if requested to do so by the City
Manager. The Secretary and Chief Examiner shall be subject to suspension or
discharge upon the vote of a majority of the appointed members of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-208) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.27 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt and promulgate procedural rules and
regulations which shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may
be held and any other matters assigned to it by the City Manager. At least one
copy of the rules and regulations, and any amendments, shall be made available
for examination and reproduction by members of the public. One copy of the
rules and regulations and any amendments shall be given to each full-time
firefighter and full-time police officer.
   (B)   The Commission shall provide that all tests shall be practical and
consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the capacity of persons
who are to be examined to perform the duties of the position to which an
appointment is to be made and may include, but not be limited to, tests of
physical fitness and of manual skill and psychological testing.
   (C)   The Commission shall provide, by the rules and regulations, for a
credit of 10% in favor of all applicants for an appointment to an entry level
position, as defined by the City Manager, under Civil Service, who in time of
war or in any expedition of the Armed Forces of the United States, have served
in and been honorably discharged from the Armed Forces of the United States and
who have equaled or exceeded the minimum qualifying standards established by
the City Manager.
   (D)   The Commission may conduct an investigation concerning and report upon
all matters regarding the enforcement and effect of the Civil Service Act and
the rules and regulations prescribed.
   (E)   The Commission may inspect all institutions, departments, positions,
and employments affected by the Act to determine whether the Act and all the
rules and regulations are being obeyed. The investigations may be conducted by
the Commission or by any Commissioner designated by the Commission for that
purpose. The Commission shall also make a like investigation on the written
petition of a citizen, duly verified, stating that irregularities or abuses
exist or setting forth, in concise language, the necessity for an
investigation. The Commission may be represented in investigations by the City
Attorney, if authorized by the City Manager. If the City Attorney does not
represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented by special counsel
appointed by the Commission in any investigation. In the course of an
investigation, the Commission, designated Commissioner, or chief examiner shall
have the power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas to require the attendance
of witnesses and the production by them of books, papers, documents, and
accounts appertaining to the investigation, and to cause the deposition of
witnesses, residing within or without the state, to be taken in the manner
prescribed by law for like depositions in civil actions in the courts of this
state. The oaths administered and subpoenas issued shall have the same force
and effect as the oaths administered by a District Judge in a judicial capacity
and subpoenas issued by the state District Courts. The failure of any person so
subpoenaed to comply shall be deemed a violation of the Civil Service Act and
shall be punished as such. No investigation shall be made pursuant to this
section if there is a written accusation concerning the same subject matter
against a person in the Civil Service. The accusation shall be handled pursuant
to §
37.46 of this chapter.
   (F)   The Commission shall provide that all hearings and investigations
before the Commission, designated Commissioner, or chief examiner shall be
governed by the Civil Service Act and the rules of practice and procedure to be
adopted by the Commission. In the conduct thereof, they shall not be bound by
the technical rules of evidence. No informality in any proceedings or hearing
or in the manner of taking testimony shall invalidate any order, decision,
rule, or regulation made, approved, or confirmed by the Commission, except that
no order, decision, rule, or regulation made by any designated Commissioner
conducting any hearing or investigation alone shall be of any force or effect
unless it is concurred in by a majority of the appointed members of the
Commission, including the vote of any Commissioner making the investigation.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish and maintain a roster of officers and
employees.
   (H)   The Commission shall provide for, establish, and hold competitive
tests to determine the relative qualifications of persons who seek employment
in any position and, as a result thereof, establish eligible lists for the
various positions.
   (I)   The Commission shall make recommendations concerning a reduction in
force policy to the City Manager.
   (J)   The Commission shall keep such records as may be necessary for the
proper administration of the Civil Service Act.
   (K)   The Commission, upon request of the City Manager, shall establish and
maintain a list of names and addresses, for a period of time established by the
City Manager, of those eligible for appointment to or promotion within the
department.
   (L)   The Commission, upon request of the City Manager, shall certify the
name of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list, following
the most recent examination, and whose qualifications have been validated by
the Commission for a vacant position.
   (M)   The Commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may be
necessary for the proper enforcement of the Civil Service Act and the rules of
the Commission. The Commission may be represented in these suits and all
investigations pursuant to the Act by the City Attorney if authorized by the
City Manager. If the City Attorney does not represent the Commission, the
Commission may be represented by special counsel appointed by it in any
particular case.
(Prior Code, § 12-210) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
CIVIL SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 37.40 APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   All appointments to, and promotions in, the Police or Fire Department
shall be made solely on merit, efficiency, and fitness, which shall be
ascertained by open competitive examination and impartial investigation by the
Commission.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPOINTMENTS. All means of selecting, appointing, or employing any person
to hold any position or employment subject to civil service.
      POSITION. An individual job which is designated by an official title
indicative of the nature of the work.
      PROMOTION or DEMOTION. Changing from one position to another, accompanied
by a corresponding change in current rate of pay.
(Prior Code, § 12-301) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.41 APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS.
   An applicant for a position of any kind under civil service shall be able to
read and write the English language, meet the minimum job qualifications of the
position as established by the City Manager, and be of good moral character. An
applicant shall be required to disclose his or her past employment history and
his or her criminal record, if any and submit a full set of his or her
fingerprints and a written statement of permission authorizing the appointing
authority to forward the fingerprints for identification. Prior to certifying
to the City Manager the names of the persons eligible for the position or
positions, the Commission shall validate the qualifications of the persons.
(Prior Code, § 12-302) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.42 FILLING VACANT POSITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Manager fills a vacancy in a position subject to the
Civil Service Act, he or she shall consider factors, including, but not limited
to:
         (a)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the applicant which are necessary for the position;
         (b)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the applicant which are
necessary for the position;
         (c)   The performance appraisals of any applicant who is already
employed in the Department, including any recent or pending disciplinary
actions involving the employee;
         (d)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the Department,
together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
         (e)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses
necessary for the position; and
         (f)   The qualifications of the applicants who are already employed in
the department and have successfully completed all parts of the examination for
the position.
      (2)   No person shall be reinstated in or transferred, suspended, or
discharged from any such position or employment contrary to the Civil Service
Act.
   (B)   Whenever a position subject to the Civil Service Act becomes vacant,
the City Manager shall make requisition upon the Commission for the name and
addresses of the persons eligible for appointment and may decline to fill such
vacancy for an indefinite period. If the Commission certifies fewer than three
names for each vacancy to the City Manager, the City Manager may appoint one of
such persons to fill the vacancy, may decline to fill the vacancy, or may order
that another examination be held by the Civil Service Commission.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs and there is no eligible list for the position or
if the Commission has not certified persons from the eligible list, a temporary
appointment may be made by the City Manager. This temporary appointment shall
not continue for a period longer than four months. No person shall receive more
than one temporary appointment or serve more than four months. No person shall
receive more than four months as a temporary appointee in any one fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 12-303) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.43 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   To enable the City Manager to exercise a choice in the filling of positions,
no appointment, employment, or promotion in any position under the Civil
Service Act shall be deemed complete until after the expiration of a period of
three to six months probationary service for firefighters and not less than six
months nor more than one year after certification by the state Law Enforcement
Training Center for police officers, as may be provided in the rules of the
Civil Service Commission, during which time the City Manager may terminate the
employment of the person appointed by him or her if, during the performance
test thus afforded and upon an observation or consideration of the performance
of duty, the City Manager deems the person unfit or unsatisfactory for service
in the Department. The City Manager may appoint one of the other persons
certified by the Commission and that person shall likewise enter upon the
duties until some person is found who is fit for appointment, employment or
promotion for the probationary period provided and then the appointment,
employment, or promotion shall be complete.
(Prior Code, § 12-304) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.44 TENURE OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The tenure of a person holding a position of employment under the Civil
Service Act shall be only during good behavior.
(Prior Code, § 12-305) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.45 CAUSES FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Any person may be removed or discharged, suspended with or without pay,
demoted, reduced in rank, or deprived of vacation, benefits, compensation, or
other privileges, except pension benefits, for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Incompetency, inefficiency, or inattention to or dereliction of duty;
   (B)   Dishonesty, prejudicial conduct, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public or a fellow employee, any act of omission
or commission tending to injure the public service, any willful failure on the
part of the employee to properly conduct himself or herself, or any willful
violation of the Civil Service Act or the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to such act;
   (C)   Mental or physical unfitness for the position which the employee
holds;
   (D)   Drunkenness or the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or any
other habit-forming drug, liquid or preparation to such an extent that the use
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee or
precludes the employee from properly performing the functions and duties of his
or her position;
   (E)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor tending to injure the employee's
ability to effectively perform the duties of his or her position; or
   (F)   Any other act or failure to act which, in the judgment of the Civil
Service Commissioners is sufficient to justify the offender to be an unsuitable
and unfit person to be employed in the public service.
(Prior Code, § 12-305) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.46 PROCEDURE FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   No employee in the Civil Service who shall have been permanently
appointed or inducted into Civil Service shall be removed, suspended, demoted,
or discharged, except for cause, and then only upon the written accusation of
the Police or Fire Chief, City Manager or any citizen or taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   The written accusation shall set forth the alleged misconduct,
charges, or grounds for investigation against the employee. The written
accusation shall be filed by the complainant with the Secretary of the
Commission who shall cause a copy of the written accusation to be delivered
promptly after the filing:
         (a)   To the Police or Fire Chief;
         (b)   To the City Manager; and
         (c)   To the employee personally or by certified mail, addressed to
the employee at the residence address of the employee shown in the personnel
records.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing the
delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary's office.
   (C)   The Police or Fire Chief shall have the authority to immediately
suspend, with pay, an employee against whom a written accusation has been
filed, pending the confirmation of the suspension, or a decision of the City
Manager to reinstate the employee, remove, demote, discharge, or suspend the
employee with or without pay. In the case of an accusation against the Police
or Fire Chief, the City Manager shall have the authority to immediately
suspend, with pay, until the investigation provided for by this section is
completed and pending the final decision of the City Manager.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the decision of the City Manager to reinstate the
employee or remove, demote, discharge, or suspend the employee, with or without
pay, the Police or Fire Chief shall, if not already completed, within a
reasonable period of time investigate the alleged misconduct, charges, or
grounds against the employee and explain the basis of the employer's evidence
to the employee and provide the employee an opportunity to present his or her
version of the circumstances which resulted in the filing of the written
accusation. If the Chief's investigation reveals other misconduct, charges, or
grounds against the employee, the additionally discovered alleged misconduct,
charges, or grounds may be considered by filing an amendment to the written
accusation with the Secretary of the Commission who shall cause a copy of such
amended accusation to be delivered promptly after the filing:
         (a)   To the Police or Fire Chief;
         (b)   To the City Manager; and
         (c)   To the employee personally or by certified mail, addressed to
the employee at the residence address of the employee shown in the personnel
records.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing the
delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary's office.
   (E)   In the event of a written complaint against the Police or Fire Chief,
the City Manager shall promptly appoint a special investigator to investigate
the alleged misconduct, charges, or grounds and, in the place of the Police or
Fire Chief, file the recommendation of the City Manager as required herein. All
of the other procedures under the Act shall apply to discipline proceedings
involving the Police or Fire Chief. Upon completion of this procedure within a
reasonable period of time, the Police or Fire Chief shall recommend in writing
to the City Manager that the alleged misconduct, charges, or grounds set forth
in the written accusation be deemed:
      (1)   To be without merit;
      (2)   To not warrant disciplinary action;
      (3)   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal, demotion,
discharge, or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or written
reprimand; or
      (4)   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge, or suspension, with or
without pay.
   (F)   Within seven calendar days after receiving the written recommendation
of the Police or Fire Chief, the City Manager shall decide to accept the
recommendation of the Police or Fire Chief, or shall decide that the alleged
misconduct, charges, or grounds for investigation against the employee set
forth in the written accusation be deemed:
      (1)   To be without merit;
      (2)   To not warrant disciplinary action;
      (3)   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal, demotion,
discharge, or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or written
reprimand; or
      (4)   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge or suspension, with or
without pay.
   (G)   The City Manager shall file a copy of his or her decision within seven
calendar days after receiving the written recommendation of the Police or Fire
Chief, with the Secretary of the Commission who shall cause a copy of such
decision to be filed promptly after the filing:
      (1)   To the Police or Fire Chief; and
      (2)   To the employee, personally or by certified mail, addressed to the
employee at the residence address of the employee shown in the personnel
records.
   (H)   The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return showing the
delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary's office.
   (I)   Any employee so removed, suspended, demoted or discharged may, within
ten calendar days after receiving written notice of the City Manager's
decision, file a written demand for an investigation and public hearing by the
Civil Service Commission. The employee shall file the request for the hearing
with the Secretary of the Commission and simultaneously send a copy of the
request to the City Manager. The failure to file such a request with the
Secretary of the Commission within ten calendar days of receipt of notice of
the action by the City Manager shall constitute a waiver of the employee's
right to review by the Civil Service Commission and the City Manager's decision
shall become final.
   (J)   Within three calendar days of receipt of the employee's notice of
appeal, the City Manager shall cause to be mailed or delivered the following
notice to the employee and Secretary of the Civil Service Commission:
      (1)   A statement of the charge(s);
      (2)   The names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the City
Manager and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
      (3)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
   (K)   Within seven calendar days after the filing of the written demand for
an investigation and public hearing by the Commission, the employee shall mail
or deliver the following upon the City Manager and the Commission;
      (1)   A response to the statement of the charge(s);
      (2)   The names of witnesses who will be called on behalf of the employee
and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
      (3)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
   (L)   Upon receipt of a written demand, the Commission shall conduct an
investigation. The Commission may be represented in the investigation and
public hearing by the City Attorney if authorized by the City Manager. If the
City Attorney does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be
represented by special counsel appointed by the Commission for any such
investigation and hearing. The investigation shall consist solely of a review
of the written submissions of the City Manager and employee to determine
whether any individuals or documents should be subpoenaed by the Commission for
the subsequent public hearing before the Commission ultimately to determine
whether the City Manager acted in good faith for cause. GOOD FAITH FOR CAUSE
shall mean that the action was not arbitrary or capricious and was not made for
political or religious reasons.
   (M)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing no less than ten nor
more than twenty calendar days from the date of filing of the employee's
written demand for an investigation. The Commission shall notify the City
Manager and employee in writing at least two calendar days prior to the date of
the hearing, of the date, time and place of hearing.
   (N)   The City Manager shall be permitted to appear in person and by counsel
and to present his or her case. The City Manager may present evidence by
testimony and documents and shall be permitted to cross-examine the employee's
witnesses. At the hearing, the employee shall be permitted to appear in person
and by counsel and to present his or her defense. The employee may present
evidence by testimony and documents and shall be permitted to cross-examine the
witnesses called by the City Manager.
   (O)   The Commission may affirm the action taken by the City Manager if the
action is supported by a preponderance of the evidence. If the Commission finds
that the removal, suspension, demotion, or discharge was made for political or
religious reasons or was not made in good faith for cause, it shall order the
immediate reinstatement or reemployment of the employee in the position or
employment from which the employee was removed, suspended, demoted, or
discharged, which reinstatement shall, if the Commission in its discretion so
provides, be retroactive and entitle the person to compensation and restoration
of benefits and privileges from the time of the removal, suspension, demotion,
or discharge.
   (P)   After the hearing, in lieu of affirming the removal, suspension,
demotion, or discharge, the Commission may modify the order of removal,
suspension, demotion, or discharge by directing a suspension, with or without
pay, for a given period and the subsequent restoration to duty or demotion in
position or pay. No later than ten calendar days after the hearing, the
Commission shall certify its findings in writing to the employee and the City
Manager who shall enforce them.
(Prior Code, § 12-305) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.47 REDUCTION IN FORCE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Manager, in establishing a reduction in force
policy, shall consider recommendations from the Civil Service Commission, but
shall not be bound by them. Prior to the adoption of a reduction in force
policy, the Mayor and City Manager shall, after giving reasonable notice to
each police officer and firefighter by first-class mail, conduct a public
hearing.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Manager shall adopt a reduction in force policy
which shall consider factors including but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the employee;
      (3)   The performance appraisal of the employee, including any recent or
pending disciplinary actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the department
together with contracts, ordinances and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses; and
      (6)   Seniority.
(Prior Code, § 12-306) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
§ 37.48 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   A leave of absence with or without pay may be granted by the City Manager to
any person under civil service. The City Manager shall give notice of the leave
to the Commission. All appointments for temporary employment resulting from the
leaves of absence shall be made from the eligible lists, if any, of the civil
service.
(Prior Code, § 12-307) (Ord. 1800, passed 4-7-1986)
CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT COMMITTEES
§ 37.60 POLICE OFFICERS' RETIREMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There shall be and is hereby created a Police Officers' Retirement
Committee to supervise the general operation of the retirement system
established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1001 to 16-1019. The Committee shall consist
of six members. Members of the Committee shall serve for terms of four years.
Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the term by a person with the
same representation as his or her predecessor. Four members shall be selected
from the police force of the city. Election of police officers shall be by
secret ballot. Results of the election shall be verified by the City Clerk. Two
members shall be designated by the City Council. The City Manager and the
Director of Finance of the city shall be and hereby are appointed to the
Committee and shall be deemed to be reappointed each four-year term hereafter
unless otherwise specified by the City Council. Members who are not
participants in the retirement system shall have a general knowledge of
retirement plans. Members of the retirement committee shall receive no salary
and shall not be compensated for expenses.
   (B)   The funds of the retirement system established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-
1001 to 16-1019 shall be invested under the general direction of the Police
Officers' Retirement Committee. All funds of the retirement system shall be
invested pursuant to the policies established by the state Investment Council.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Officers' Retirement Committee to:
      (1)   Elect a Chairperson and other officers as the Committee deems
appropriate;
      (2)   Provide each employee a summary of plan eligibility requirements
and benefit provisions;
      (3)   Provide, within 30 days after a request is made by a participant, a
statement describing the amount of benefits the participant is eligible to
receive; and
      (4)   Make available for review an annual report of the system's
operations describing both:
         (a)   The amount of contributions to the system from both employee and
employer sources; and
         (b)   An identification of the total assets of the retirement system.
      (5)   Beginning December 31, 1998, and each December 31 thereafter, the
Chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall file with the Public Employees
Retirement Board an annual report on each retirement plan established pursuant
to § 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and administered by a retirement
system established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1001 to 16-1019, and shall submit
copies of the report to the members of the state Retirement Systems Committee
of the legislature. The annual report shall be in a form prescribed by the
Public Employees Retirement Board and shall contain the following information
for each retirement plan:
         (a)   The number of persons participating in the retirement plan;
         (b)   The contribution rates of participants in the plan;
         (c)   Plan assets and liabilities;
         (d)   The names and positions of persons administering the plan;
         (e)   The names and positions of persons investing plan assets;
         (f)   The form and nature of investments;
         (g)   For each defined contribution plan, a full description of
investment policies and options available to plan participants; and
         (h)   For each defined benefit plan, the levels of benefits of
participants in the plan, the number of members who are eligible for a benefit,
and the total present value of the members' benefits, as well as the funding
sources which will pay for the benefits. If a plan contains no current active
participants, the Chairperson may file in place of the report a statement with
the Public Employees Retirement Board indicating the number of retirees still
drawing benefits, and the sources and amount of funding for the benefits.
      (6)   Beginning December 31, 1998, and every four years thereafter, if
the retirement plan is a defined benefit plan, the Retirement Committee shall
cause to be prepared a quadrennial report and the Chairperson shall file the
same with the Public Employees Retirement Board and submit to the members of
the Nebraska Retirement Systems Committee of the legislature a copy of the
report. The report shall consist of a full actuarial analysis of each
retirement plan administered by a system established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-
1001 to 16-1019. The analysis shall be prepared by an independent private
organization or public entity employing actuaries who are members in good
standing of the American Academy of Actuaries, and which organization or entity
has demonstrated expertise to perform this type of analysis and is unrelated to
any organization offering investment advice or which provides investment
management services to the retirement plan.
(Ord. 2005-2738, passed 7-7-2005)
§ 37.61 FIREFIGHTERS' RETIREMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There shall be and is hereby created a Firefighters' Retirement
Committee to supervise the general operation of the retirement system
established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1020 to 16-1042. The Firefighters'
Retirement Committee shall consist of six members. Members of the committee
shall serve for terms of four years. Vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the term by a person with the same representation as his or her
predecessor. Four members shall be selected by the active paid firefighters
excluding firefighters identified in Neb. RS 16-1039. Election of firefighters
shall be by secret ballot. Results of the election shall be verified by the
City Clerk. Two members shall be designated by the City Council. The City
Manager and Director of Finance of the city shall be and hereby are appointed
to the Firefighters' Retirement Committee and shall be deemed to be reappointed
each four-year term hereafter unless otherwise specified by the City Council.
Members who are not participants in the retirement system shall have a general
knowledge of retirement plans. Members of the Firefighters' Retirement
Committee shall, subject to approval by the City Council, be reimbursed for
their actual and necessary expenses incurred in carrying out their duties.
   (B)   The funds in the Firefighters' Retirement System Fund shall be
invested by the Firefighters' Retirement Committee. The city, subject to the
approval of the Retirement Committee, shall contract with a funding agent or
agents to hold or invest the assets of the retirement system and to provide for
the benefits provided by Neb. RS 16-1020 to 16-1042. The Firefighters'
Retirement Committee, subject to the approval of the city, may also select an
investment manager. The city, subject to approval of the Retirement Committee,
may contract with investment managers registered under the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 to invest, reinvest, and otherwise manage the portion of the assets
of the retirement system as may be assigned by the city or Firefighters'
Retirement Committee. All funds of the retirement system established pursuant
to Neb. RS 16-1020 to 16-1042 shall be invested pursuant to the policies
established by the state Investment Council. The Firefighters' Retirement
Committee shall establish an investment plan which allows each member of the
retirement system to allocate all contributions to his or her employee account
and, if he or she commenced his or her employment after January 1, 1984, his or
her employer account to the various investment options or combinations of
investment options described in the plan. Each firefighter shall have the
option of investing his or her employee account and, if he or she commenced his
or her employment after January 1, 1984, his or her employer account in any
proportion, including full allocation, in any investment option offered by the
plan. Upon the direction of the city, firefighters employed on January 1, 1984,
may have the option to allocate their employer account to various investment
options or combinations of investment options in any proportion, including full
allocation, in any investment option offered by the plan. Each firefighter
shall be given a summary of the investment plan and a detailed current
description of each investment option prior to making or revising his or her
allocation.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Firefighters' Retirement Committee to:
      (1)   Elect a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, and other officers as the
Committee deems appropriate;
      (2)   Hold regular quarterly meetings and special meetings upon the call
of the Chairperson;
      (3)   Conduct meetings pursuant to the Open Meetings Act;
      (4)   Provide each employee a summary of plan eligibility requirements
and benefit provisions and investment options available to the employees;
      (5)   Provide, within 30 days after a request is made by a participant, a
statement describing the amount of benefits the participant is eligible to
receive;
      (6)   Make available for review an annual report of the system's
operations describing both:
         (a)   The amount of contributions to the system from both employee and
employer sources; and
         (b)   An identification of the total assets of the retirement system.
      (7)   Beginning December 31, 1998, and each December 31 thereafter, the
Chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall file with the Public Employees
Retirement Board an annual report on each retirement plan established pursuant
to § 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and administered by a retirement
system established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1020 to 16-1042 and shall submit
copies of the report to the members of the state Retirement Systems Committee
of the legislature. The annual report shall be in a form prescribed by the
Public Employees' Retirement Board and shall contain the following information
for each retirement plan:
         (a)   The number of persons participating in the retirement plan;
         (b)   The contribution rates of participants in the plan;
         (c)   Plan assets and liabilities;
         (d)   The names and positions of persons administering the plan;
         (e)   The names and positions of persons investing plan assets;
         (f)   The form and nature of investments;
         (g)   For each defined contribution plan, a full description of
investment policies and options available to plan participants; and
         (h)   For each defined benefit plan, the levels of benefits of
participants in the plan, the number of members who are eligible for a benefit,
and the total present value of the members' benefits, as well as the funding
sources which will pay for the benefits. If a plan contains no current active
participants, the Chairperson may file in place of the report a statement with
the Public Employees Retirement Board indicating the number of retirees still
drawing benefits, and the sources and amount of funding for the benefits.
      (8)   Beginning December 31, 1998, and every four years thereafter, if
the retirement plan is a defined benefit plan, the Retirement Committee shall
cause to be prepared a quadrennial report and the Chairperson shall file the
same with the Public Employees Retirement Board and submit to the members of
the state Retirement Systems Committee of the legislature a copy of the report.
The report shall consist of a full actuarial analysis of each retirement plan
administered by a system established pursuant to Neb. RS 16-1020 to 161042. The
analysis shall be prepared by an independent private organization or public
entity employing actuaries who are members in good standing of the American
Academy of Actuaries, and which organization or entity has demonstrated
expertise to perform this type of analysis and is unrelated to any organization
offering investment advice or which provides investment management services to
the retirement plan.
(Ord. 2005-2738, passed 7-7-2005)
CHAPTER 38: FEE SCHEDULE
Appendix
   
A.   Building use fees
   
B.   City cemetery fees
   
C.   Delinquent bill charges
   
D.   Sewer Department rates and fees
   
E.   Water Department rates and fees
   
F.   Solid waste collection fees
   
G.   Parking fees and fines
   
H.   Animal impoundment and boarding fees
   
I.   Fireworks fees
   
J.   Occupation taxes
   
K.   Oil and natural gas fees
   
L.   Alarm systems fees
   
M.   Building regulation and zoning application fees
   
N.   Hangar rental fees
APPENDIX A: BUILDING USE FEES
   (A)   City Auditorium rental. The following rental charges have been set by
the City Council in accordance with the provisions of §
54.046 of this code.
      (1)   Main floor balcony and stage. The following schedule of charges
shall include the use of the main floor, balcony and stage of the city
auditorium.
         (a)   Non-profit groups and governmental subdivisions: $50 per day.
         (b)   All others: $150 per day.
         (c)   Rehearsals, set up and clean up: 
            1.   Non-profit groups and governmental subdivisions: $25 per day.
            2.   All others: $75 each.
         (d)   City provided extras:
            1.   Set up: $50.
            2.   Spotlight: $10 per day.
            3.   Flood lights: $10 per day.
         (e)   Deposits: No part of this division (A) shall be construed to
mean various deposits may be added to another deposit. In the event an activity
falls in the category of two or more deposits, as defined by this division (A),
the deposit requiring the greater dollar amount shall be charged and all other
eligible deposit(s) shall be waived.
         (f)   Damage deposit: There shall be a $100 damage deposit required
for ALL activities, regardless of the size or scope of the activity, for the
use of the main floor, balcony and stage of the Auditorium. The deposit shall
be in the form of cash or a cashier's check, payable to the city. The deposit
shall remain in full force and effect and be held by the City Clerk for a
period of 72 hours after the scheduled event. If property damage occurs, the
city may use the deposit to pay the costs of repairs.
         (g)   Clean up/damage deposit (events with food and drink): There
shall be a $400 clean up/damage deposit required of any group, regardless of
the size or scope of the activity, when food or beverages are to be provided.
This $400 deposit will be returned to the renter if the group provides persons
to "clean up" to the satisfaction of the City Manager or the City Clerk after
the event. If the renter does not clean up after the event, an amount
sufficient to compensate the city's janitorial staff for the cleaning up of the
Auditorium shall be deducted from the cleanup deposit before it is returned.
The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a cashier's check payable to the
City of McCook. The cleanup/damage deposit shall remain in full force and
effect and be held by the City Clerk for a period of 72 hours after the
scheduled event. If property damage occurs, the city may use the deposit to pay
the costs of repairs.
         (h)   Clean up/damage deposit (events serving alcohol):  
            1.   There shall be a $800 clean up/damage deposit required of any
group, regardless of the size or scope of the activity, when alcoholic
beverages are to be provided. This $800 deposit will be returned to the renter
if the group provides persons to "clean up" to the satisfaction of the City
Manager or the City Clerk after the event. If the renter does not clean up
after the event, an amount sufficient to compensate the city's janitorial staff
for the cleaning up of the Auditorium shall be deducted from the cleanup
deposit before it is returned. The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a
cashier's check payable to the City of McCook. The clean up/damage deposit
shall remain in full force and effect and be held by the City Clerk for a
period of 72 hours after the scheduled event. If property damage occurs, the
city may use the deposit to pay the costs of repairs.
            2.   For all events serving alcohol, the lessee shall be required
to provide at least two security guards to be on duty the entire time that the
event is going on. The names and ages of the security guards must be provided
to the Chief of Police at least five days prior to the event and are subject to
the approval of the Chief of Police.
         (i)   Dances:
            1.   The hours shall be from 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight on any
given day. The Auditorium shall not be open for the setting up of any equipment
until 6:00 p.m. on the day of the event.
            2.   Dances will be assessed the same clean up/damage deposit as
required for an event serving alcohol.
            3.   For all dances, the lessee shall be required to provide at
least three security guards to be on duty the entire time that the dance is
going on. The names and ages of the security guards must be provided to the
Chief of Police at least five days prior to the event and are subject to the
approval of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Council chambers. The City Council Chambers may be leased at the
following rates.
      (1)   Governmental subdivisions: No charge.
      (2)   All others:
 
8:00 a.m.-12:00 noon $15
1:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.  $15
5:00 p.m.-midnight   $25
All day              $35
 
      (3)   The Council Chambers shall not be available for leasing on any
Monday after 4:00 p.m.
   (C)    Heritage Senior Center. The following rental charges have been set by
the City Council in accordance with the provisions of § 35.061 of this code.
      (1)   The following schedule of charges shall be for the use of the
dining room of the Heritage Senior Center.
         (a)   Governmental subdivision.
            1.   Single use: No charge.
            2.   Consecutive use: $100 per day
         (b)   Non-profit groups: $100 per day
         (c)   All others: $100 per day.
         (d)   Damage deposit: There shall be a $100 dollar damage deposit
required for ALL activities, regardless of the size or scope of the activity,
for the use of the Senior Center. The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a
cashier's check, payable to the city. The deposit shall remain in full force
and effect and be held by the Senior Services Director for a period of 72 hours
after the scheduled event. If property damage occurs, the city may use the
deposit to pay the costs of repairs.
         (e)   Clean up deposit: There shall be a $200 clean up deposit
required of any group, regardless of the size or scope of the activity, when
food or beverages are to be provided. This $200 deposit will be returned to the
renter if the group provides persons to clean up to the satisfaction of the
Senior Services Director, after the event. If the renter does not clean up
after the event, an amount sufficient to compensate the city's janitorial staff
for the cleaning up of the room shall be deducted from the clean up deposit
before it is returned. The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a cashier's
check payable to the city. The clean up deposit shall remain in full force and
effect and be held by the Senior Services Director for a period of 72 hours
after the scheduled event.
      (2)   The following schedule of charges shall be for the use of the
divided meeting room of the Heritage Senior Center.
         (a)   Meeting room only: $50 per day.
         (b)   Non-profit groups: $50 per day.
         (c)   Damage deposit: There shall be a $50 damage deposit required for
ALL activities, regardless of the size or scope of the activity, for the use of
the Senior Center. The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a cashier's
check, payable to the city. The deposit shall remain in full force and effect
and be held by the Senior Services Director for a period of 72 hours after the
scheduled event. If property damage occurs, the city may use the deposit to pay
the costs of repairs.
         (d)   Clean up deposit: There shall be a $200 clean up deposit
required of any group, regardless of the size or scope of the activity, when
food or beverages are to be provided. This $200 deposit will be returned to the
renter if the group provides persons to clean up to the satisfaction of the
Senior Services Director, after the event. If the renter does not clean up
after the event, an amount sufficient to compensate the city's janitorial staff
for the cleaning up of the room shall be deducted from the clean up deposit
before it is returned. The deposit shall be in the form of cash or a cashier's
check payable to the city. The clean up deposit shall remain in full force and
effect and be held by the Senior Services Director for a period of 72 hours
after the scheduled event.
   (3)   In addition to the above basic charges, there shall be charges for
extras as follows.
      (a)   Dances:
         1.   All dances will be charged a fee of $100 for a 4-hour period. The
hours shall be from 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight on any given day. The Senior
Center shall not be open for the setting up of any equipment until 6:00 p.m. on
the day of the event.
         2.   The lessee of the Senior Center for any dance shall be required
to post a damage deposit in the form of cash or a cashier's check, payable to
the city, with the Senior Services Director in the amount of $300, which will
protect the city against property damages. The deposit will be held by the
Senior Services Director for a period of 72 hours after the scheduled event. If
property damage occurs, the city may use the deposit to pay the costs of
repairs.
         3.   For all dances, the lessee shall be required to provide at least
three security guards to be on duty the entire time that the dance is going on.
The names and ages of the security guards must be provided to the Senior
Services Director at least five days prior to the dance and are subject to the
approval of the City Manager and the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 1765, passed 12-4-1984) (Res. 91-07, passed
1-6-1992; Res. 93-10, passed 11-1-1993; Res. 2007-20, passed 9-17-2007; Ord.
2010-2837, 5-3-2010)
APPENDIX B: CITY CEMETERY FEES
   (A)   For the purpose of this appendix, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY RESIDENT. Any person, spouse or blood relative who at the time of
death was residing within the corporate city limits (excluding hospitals,
nursing homes, retirement homes or hotels/motels) or can provide evidence of
residing within the corporate city limits for a period of greater than one
year.
   (B)   Lot/niche prices. The following prices for cemetery lots and
columbarium niches have been set by the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of § 54.084 of this code. The prices of all cemetery lots and
columbarium niches shall be governed by the following schedule unless hereafter
changed by the City Council.
      (1)   Any grave space for city resident: $700;
      (2)   Any grave space for non-resident: $950;
      (3)   Columbarium niche #1:
         (a)   City resident: $1,250*;
         (b)   Non-resident: $1,500*; and
      (4)   Columbarium niche #2:
         (a)   Bottom row A:
            1.   City resident: $1,500*;
            2.   Non-resident: $1,750*;
         (b)   Rows B, C, D (Top row):
            1.   City resident: $1,800*;
            2.   Non-resident: $2,050*.
   *Price includes niche, engraving, initial opening and closing, except
initial opening on Saturday morning is an additional $200. Subsequent openings
and closings during the workweek are $200, and on Saturday morning are $450.
   (C)   Price for opening graves. The following prices for the opening of
graves have been set by the City Council with the provisions of § 54.087 of
this code. The prices charged for opening graves shall be governed by the
following schedule.
      (1)   For the opening of a grave for the burial of a person:
         (a)   City resident: $600;
         (b)   Non-resident: $850.
      (2)   For the opening of a grave for the burial of the cremated remains
of a person:
         (a)   City resident: $300;
         (b)   Non-resident: $550.
      (3)   Disinterment:
         (a)   From one location to another in the cemetery: $1,000;
         (b)   To another cemetery: $500.
      (4)   For Saturday morning interments for a city resident or non-
resident: add $250.
      (5)   There will be no interments, inurnments, or disinterments Saturday
afternoon or evening, on Sunday, on a designated city holiday, or on weekends
before or after a designated city holiday.
   (D)   Monument and marker permit fee. The fee required for a monument or
marker permit, set by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of §
54.115 of this code, is $30 per space.
   (E)   Perpetual care fee. The fee for perpetual care, set by the City
Council in accordance with the provisions of § 54.088 of this code, is a one-
time fee of $300 for each space purchased, which will provide for eternal care
of the cemeteries.
(Ord. 1778, passed 9-3-1985; Ord. 1933, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 2002-2630, passed
7-1-2002; Ord. 2023-3074, passed 11-20-2023)
APPENDIX C: DELINQUENT BILL CHARGES.
   All bills of the city for utility service charges shall be delinquent if not
paid by 4:00 p.m., 22 days after the date of the bill. If said date falls on a
weekend or holiday, payment will be accepted until 4:00 p.m. on the next
business day. All utility service charges not paid within that time shall incur
an administrative handling charge of $15 to reflect the additional costs
incurred by the city in rebilling, sending delinquency notices, and otherwise
handling the unpaid account. Payment of this handling charge will be required
to avoid disconnection, and before reconnection.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
APPENDIX D: SEWER DEPARTMENT RATES AND FEES
   (A)   Sewer connection permit.   The fee required for the obtaining of a
sewer connection permit as required by §
51.020 is hereby set at $500.
   (B)   Sewer connection fees. The fees required by §
51.022 pertaining to sewer connections are hereby set as follows:
      (1)   Where connection to an existing sewer main is requested, a sewer
connection fee of $150 will be required.
      (2)   In certain cases, where a larger than normal service connection is
required, a fee will be charged to the applicant based on labor and material
charges involved in installing the sewer connection.
      (3)   All fees required by this section are due and payable in advance of
the inspection or sewer connection.
   (C)   Private sewage disposal permit. The fee required by §
51.055 pertaining to private sewage disposal permits is hereby set at $10.
   (D)   Sewer use charges.
      (1)   Residential. The residential sewer use charges provided for in §
51.072 are as follows:
         (a)   Minimum charges of $21.48 per month based on the first 333 cubic
feet of water usage.
         (b)   Residential rate - $4.639 per 100 cubic feet for everything over
333 cubic feet of water usage.
      (2)   Commercial. The commercial sewer use charges provided for in §
51.072 are as follows:
         (a)   Minimum charge of $31.29 per month based on the first 333 cubic
feet of water usage.
         (b)   Commercial rate - $4.639 per 100 cubic feet for everything over
333 cubic feet of water usage.
      (3)   Sewage disposal at the treatment plant. All sewage transported by
truck or any vehicle to the plant for disposal will be assessed a fee of $0.10
per gallon during regular business hours. Disposal during non-business hours
will be assessed an additional $35 per load.
(Ord. 1662, passed 9-20-1981; Ord. 1704, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 92-2112, passed
9-8-1992; Ord. 99-2531, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 2003-2678, passed 9-2-2003; Ord.
2008-2813, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2010-2840, passed 9-20-2010; Ord. 2011-2864,
passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2016-2941, passed 10-17-2016; Ord. 2017-2958, passed 9-
18-2017; Ord. 2019-2994, passed 12-2-2019; Ord. 2021-3015, passed 4-19-2021;
Ord 2022-3037, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 2023-3065, passed 4-3-2023; Ord. 2024-
3077, passed 4-15-2024; Ord. 2024-3089, passed 10-7-2024)
APPENDIX E: WATER DEPARTMENT RATES AND FEES
   (A)   Water rates. The following rates for water have been set by the City
Council in accordance with the provisions of §
52.01 of this code.
      (1)   Customers within the city. The rates for water used by customers
within the city shall be as follows:
         (a)   2.539 dollars per 100 cubic feet for the first 5,000 cubic feet
of water used;
         (b)   1.881 dollars per 100 cubic feet for all water used over 5,000
cubic feet.
         (c)   In addition to the above, a ready-to-serve fee of $24.90 per
month shall be charged to each customer.
      (2)   Customers outside the city. The amount to be charged for water used
by customers outside the city boundaries shall be computed by taking the water
consumption of the customer times the rates fixed in division (A) (1) above,
plus additional charges as specified therein, and multiplying the final sum
times the factor of one and one-half to get the total charge to be billed the
customer.
      (3)   Bulk water. The rate for bulk water purchases shall be $5 per 1,000
gallons.
      (4)   Fire hydrant meter. Fire hydrant meter rent shall be $50 per week,
plus water usage charged at the rate for bulk water. The deposit required for a
fire hydrant meter is set at $1,000.
   (B)   Deposit. The deposit required of customers of the City Water
Department as set out in §
52.03 is hereby set at $150.
   (C)   Reconnection fee. Any account disconnected for nonpayment of water
charges shall be required to pay a $50 reconnection charge during regular
business hours and a $75 reconnection charge outside of normal business hours,
including weekends and holidays, in addition to all unpaid water charges and
sewer charges, monthly service charges, and sales tax, before the service will
be reconnected. Reconnection will require the full deposit required hereunder.
If the deposit has been refunded or depleted, it must be restored to the full
amount required herein before service will be reconnected.
   (D)   Insufficient fund fees. There shall be assessed a fee of $20 against
the account of any customer who issues or passes a check, draft or similar
signed order for the payment of money when there are insufficient funds in or
credit with the drawee for the payment of the check, draft or order in full
upon presentation. This fee shall be assessed for each occurrence.
   (E)   Customer request for disconnect or reconnect. Any account disconnected
or reconnected at the customers request shall be required to pay a $35 fee for
the service provided during normal business hours. The City Manager has the
authority to waive fee if it is of an emergency nature to preserve property.
   (F)   New account charge. Any new account connected upon the customer
request shall be required to pay a $5 new account fee.
(Ord. 1661, passed 9-20-1982; Ord. 1703, passed 9-6-1983; Ord. 1825, passed 7-
20-1987; Ord. 96-2371, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 2001-2602, passed 1-21-2002; Ord.
2004-2715, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2007-2799, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 2011-2863,
passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2012-2882, passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 2019-2993, passed 12-2-
2019; Ord. 2021-3014, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 2022-3036, passed 4-18-2022; Ord.
2023-3064, passed 4-3-2023; Ord. 2024-3076, passed 4-15-2024; Ord. 2024-3088,
passed 10-7-2024)
APPENDIX F: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FEES
   (A)   In order to pay for the cost of operation and maintenance of the
Transfer Station and to provide funds necessary for equipment and future land
acquisition, the following fees are hereby established in compliance with §
55.02.
      (1)   All residents of the corporate limits of the City of McCook shall
not be charged a fee at the Transfer Station for any refuse or debris that is
generated on their own residential property and personally delivered to the
Transfer Station. Except as provided in division (E) of this Appendix,
residents and nonresidents delivering construction, demolition, or remodeling
waste, and all persons hauling for hire, commercial, contract for commercial
tree trimmers, lawn caretakers, or nonresidents of the City of McCook shall be
assessed according to the solid waste collection schedule of fees.
      (2)   The city will operate in accordance with Nebraska Department of
Environmental Quality’s Title 132 Integrated Solid Waste Management
regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Solid waste collection schedule of fees. See Chapter 38, Fee
Schedule.
 
Household/commercial waste-no yard waste $.043000 per pound ($86.00 per ton)
                                         minimum charge-$5
Yard waste only                          $.012675 per pound ($25.35 per ton)
                                         minimum charge-$5
Non-solid waste scale fee                $5
 
      (2)   Solid waste collection payment due. Payment of the above fee(s) is
due and payable upon entrance into the Transfer Station.
   (C)   Fee for U-Load-It Clean-Up program. A fee of $50 for the use of a city
truck is hereby provided for use of the city’s U-Load-It Clean-Up program.
Scale fees will be charged according to the above schedule as outlined in
divisions (A) and (B) of this Appendix.
   (D)   Solid waste collection/disposal fee.
      (1)   All residential units within the corporate city limits shall be
charged a monthly solid waste collection/disposal fee of $26.25 and a monthly
recycling fee of $2.
      (2)   All residential units within the corporate city limits may request
an additional container to be used for yard waste only, and shall be charged a
monthly disposal fee of $6 per month, effective April 1, 2024, during those
months that yard waste is banned from landfills.
      (3)   Tracts of land or buildings containing three or more residential
units may choose alternative solid waste collection/disposal methods upon the
approval of the City Manager.
      (4)   All solid waste collection/disposal fees prescribed by this
Appendix shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate for which the
service is supplied and, if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified
to the City Treasurer and may be recovered by the city in an action at law, and
it may be certified to the County Clerk and assessed against said real estate
and premises served and be collected and returned in the same manner as other
city taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and returned.
      (5)   Bills for solid waste collection/disposal fees charged pursuant to
this Appendix shall be rendered at the same time that bills are rendered for
water service, and all collection/disposal fees levied by this Appendix which
are not paid at or before water service charges are required to be paid, shall
be deemed delinquent and the water service of the user may be discontinued.
   (E)   Waiver of fees for affordable housing projects. Disposal fees shall be
waived for the deposit at the Transfer Station of solid waste that was
generated by the remodeling or clean up of a residential dwelling located
within the corporate limits of the city, using funds provided by the state
Department of Economic Development pursuant to the state Affordable Housing
Trust Fund Act.
   (F)   Partial waiver of fees for demolition of certain residential dwelling
units. Thirty percent of the total disposal fees shall be waived for the
deposit at the Transfer Station of solid waste generated by the demolition of a
residential dwelling unit located within the corporate limits of the city along
with an accessory detached garage, if the requirements set forth in this
division are satisfied. In order to qualify for the partial waiver of disposal
fees, the owner of the dwelling unit must apply in writing to the Building
Inspector of the city for a partial waiver of fees at least 14 days prior to
commencement of the demolition work, and must establish to the satisfaction of
the Building Inspector that:
      (1)   The owner received written confirmation from the Building Inspector
that the demolition qualifies for a partial waiver of disposal fees prior to
commencing with the demolition work;
      (2)   All asbestos and other hazardous materials were abated and removed
from the structures prior to commencing demolition work in accordance with all
federal, state, and local laws;
      (3)   The dwelling unit has been abandoned for a continuous period of at
least 12 months prior to submission of the application for partial waiver of
fees as shown by water, gas, or electric utility records;
      (4)   The dwelling unit is so old, dilapidated, or has become so out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy that it is unreasonable to repair the structure;
      (5)   There is no reimbursement for disposal fees available from any
other source such as homeowner’s insurance; and
      (6)   The owner obtained a permit authorizing the demolition from the
city prior to commencement of the demolition work.
(Ord. 1796, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 1932, passed 8-20-1990; Ord. 92-2100, passed
7-20-1992; Ord. 93-2174, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. 94-2238, passed 7-27-1994; Ord.
95-2329, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 96-2370, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-2386, passed
10-20-1997; Ord. 2001-2582, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2004-2713, passed 12-6-2004;
Ord. 2008-2812, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2009-2829, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2016-
2939, passed 9-19-2016; Ord. 2017-2954, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 2019-2988,
passed 3-16-2020; Ord. 2021-3022, passed 9-20-2021; Ord. 2022-3048, passed 10-
17-2022; Ord. 2023-3072, passed 9-18-2023; Ord. 2024-3087, passed 10-7-2024)
APPENDIX G: PARKING FEES AND FINES
   (A)   Parking fine. Pursuant to §
72.51 of this code, the penalty for all violations of all parking regulations,
zones, and ordinances, where specific penalties are not otherwise set out,
shall be $25 for each violation.
   (B)   Parking penalty. The minimum penalty for a violation of the provisions
of
Chapter 74, Schedule I of this code of ordinances shall be $25. The maximum
penalty shall be as provided in Neb. RS 18-1741.02.
(Res. 1179, passed 3-22-1983; Res. 1248, passed 10-7-1985; Res. 95-07, passed
4-3-1995)
APPENDIX H: ANIMAL IMPOUNDMENT AND BOARDING FEES
   Pursuant to §
90.30 of this code, the following fees have been set for dogs impounded within
the City Animal Shelter.
      (1)   Shelter impoundment fee: $15
      (2)   Daily board fee (per day): $15
(Ord. 1768, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2020-3001, passed 3-16-2020)
APPENDIX I: FIREWORKS FEES
   Permit fee: Pay to the city the sum of $75, which sum shall be retained by
the city as an occupation tax.
APPENDIX J: OCCUPATION TAXES
   Occupation tax amounts. For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax
is hereby levied on the following businesses.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverage licenses.
      (1)   Table.
Class Type Licensee License Amount
Class Type Licensee                                           License Amount
A          Beer, on sale                                      $100
B          Beer, off sale only                                $100
C          Beer, wine, distilled spirits, on and off sale     $300
C          Beer, wine, distilled spirits, on and off sale -   $30
Nonprofi t nonprofit corporations without full-time employees
D          Beer, wine, distilled spirits, off sale only       $200
I          Beer, wine, distilled spirits, on sale only        $250
I          Beer, wine, distilled spirits, on sale only -      $20
Nonprofi t nonprofit corporations without full-time employees
W          Wholesale beer                                     $500
X          Wholesale liquor                                   $750
 
      (2)   Applicants for new and renewal retail liquor licenses shall be
limited to premises where the principal business conducted is the retail sale
of alcoholic beverages, a restaurant, a hotel, or providing recreational goods
and services.
      (3)   The occupation tax year for Class C liquor licenses shall begin on
November 1 of each year and end on the following September 30. The occupation
tax year for non-Class C liquor licenses shall begin on May 1 of each year and
end on the following April 30. No occupation tax in an amount less than the sum
provided for in this section for a yearly period shall be accepted, except that
the occupation taxes shall be prorated on a quarterly basis as of the date of
issuance:
         (a)   When there is a purchase of an existing licensed business and a
new license of the same class is issued; or
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a new license for a location which has not
been previously licensed.
   (B)   Commercial garbage collectors. $25 per year.
   (C)   Plumbers. $25 per year.
(Ord. 1683, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 1818, passed 2-16-1987; Ord. 1918, passed 7-
16-1990; Ord. 95-2336, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 2006-2785, passed 12-18-2006;
Ord. 2016-2935, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2017-2947, passed 3-20-2017)
APPENDIX K: OIL AND NATURAL GAS FEES
   (A)   Before commencing the drilling of an oil and gas well within the city,
the person, firm, or corporation desiring to drill a well shall first obtain a
permit from the city. The applicant shall, at the time of making application
for the drilling permit, deposit with the City Clerk a fee of $200, payable to
the city. If the city grants the application, the fee shall be retained by the
city. If a license is not granted, the city shall retain the sum of $100 for
administrative expenses and the balance of the fee shall be returned to the
applicant.
   (B)   No permit or renewal permit shall be assigned or transferred to any
other person, firm, or corporation unless a notice of transfer is filed with
the city, giving the name of the assignee. A fee of $100 shall accompany the
notice of transfer. No transfer shall be complete until all of the requirements
of this section shall have been met.
   (D)   All persons, firms, or corporations having obtained a license for oil
or gas wells within the city, which wells are producing oil or gas, shall pay
an annual license renewal fee of $200 per each well which continues to produce
oil or gas at any time during the calendar year. The fee shall be due and
payable by December 31 of each year and shall be paid to the City Clerk.
APPENDIX L: ALARM SYSTEMS FEES
   (A)   The application for an alarm system permit shall be accompanied by a
connection fee in the amount of $100.
   (B)   The owner or lessee shall pay annually, in addition, a maintenance and
monitoring fee in the amount of $90.
   (C)   If the alarm component is an automatic dialer to be interconnected to
a telephone in a city department, or is a system which provides for a third
party relay of calls to such a telephone, the owner or lessee shall pay to the
city department annually a monitoring fee in the amount of $50, and a fee in
such amount shall be paid, in the first instance, with the application for a
permit.
 
Excessive Number of False Alarms
Number of False Alarms Amount (Each Occurrence)
5-10                   $25
11-20                  $50
21 and more            $100
 
APPENDIX M: BUILDING REGULATION AND ZONING APPLICATION FEES
Permit Fee
Permit                               Fee
Building Permits                      
   Construction Cost:
      $0 - $5,000              $25.00
                                     $25.00 for first $5,000 plus $5.00 for
      $5,001 - $25,000         each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, up to and including $25,000
                                     $125.00 for first $25,000 plus $4.00 for
      $25,001 - $50,000        each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, up to and including $50,000
                                     $225.00 for first $50,000 plus $3.00 for
      $50,001 - $100,000       each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, up to and including $100,000
                                     $375.00 for first $100,000 plus $2.50 for
      $100,001 - $500,000      each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, up to and including $500,000
                                     $1,375.00 for first $500,000 plus $2.00
      $500,001 - $1,000,000    for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof, up to and including $1,000,000
                                     $2,375.00 for first $1,000,000 plus $1.50
      $1,000,001 and up        for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                     thereof
                                     $100.00 minimum fee, or the appointed
Plan Review - by city staff or its   agents standard hourly rate plus 10%,
agents, of drainage report, sanitary whichever is greater
sewage disposal report, and water    Additional fees will be assessed should
distribution report.                 the project require extraordinary review
                                     by city staff or its appointed agents
Curb Cut Permit                      $25.00
Demolition Permit                    $100.00
Fence Permit                         $25.00
Mechanical Permit                    $25.00 minimum fee, plus $3.00 per item
                                     over six items
Mobile Home Set Down Permit          $25.00
Plumbing Permit                      $25.00 minimum fee, plus $3.00 per item
                                     over six items
Sidewalk Permit (New Construction)   $25.00
Sign Permit                          $25.00 for first $1,000 plus $2.50 for
                                     each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
Structure Moving Permit              $100.00
Right-of-Way Encroachment Permit     $25.00
Zoning Applications:                  
   Change of Zoning               $75.00
   Lot Split/Lot Line Adjustment  $75.00
   Special Exception              $75.00
   Variance                       $75.00
Subdivisions:                         
   Preliminary Plat               $500.00
   Final Plat                     $200.00 per lot, with a maximum of $5,500
Mobile Home Park                     $100.00
                                      
                                     $200.00 initial license/non-consecutive
                                     renewals $100.00 renewal
Contractors License                  $180.00 initial license/non-consecutive
   General Contractor             renewals $90.00 renewal
   Building Contractor            $150.00 initial license/non-consecutive
   Residential Contractor         renewals $75.00 renewal
   Plumbing Contractor            $150.00 initial license/non-consecutive
   Mechanical Contractor          renewals $75.00 renewal
   Roofing Contractor             $150.00 initial license/non-consecutive
   Limited Contractor             renewals $75.00 renewal
                                     $120.00 initial license/non-consecutive
                                     renewals $60.00 renewal
                                     $120.00 initial license/non-consecutive
                                     renewals $60.00 renewal
 
(Ord. 95-2335, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 2000-2544, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 2004-
2688, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 2004-2703, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2016-2936,
passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 2022-3035, passed 3-7-2022; Ord. 2023-3063, passed 3-6-
2023)
APPENDIX N: HANGAR RENTAL FEES
   (A)   The rates for hangar rental at the McCook Ben Nelson Regional Airport
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Individual T-Hangars: $40 per month.
      (2)   Standard Hangar with sliding doors: $50 per month.
      (3)   Hangar used for storage purposes: $72 per month.
      (4)   Large 40' x 60' Hangar: $70 per month.
      (5)   Small Hangar with Bi-Fold doors: $87 per month.
      (6)   Large Hangar with Bi-Fold doors: $102 per month.
      (7)   Six-Plex Hangar (per unit): $125 per month.
   (B)   These rates shall take effect and be in force as of April 1, 2017,
with the rates to increase annually at 3%. The annual rate increase shall be
recognized on January 1,2018, and each subsequent first day of January
thereafter.
(Res. 2016-17, passed 10-17-2016; Res. 2017-05, passed 3-6-2017)
TITLE V: DEPARTMENTS
      Chapter
         
50.   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
         
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
         
54.   CITY PARKS AND PROPERTY
         
55.   SOLID WASTE
         
56.   SENIOR SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Delinquent bill charges
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DELINQUENT BILL CHARGES.
   All bills of the city for utility service charges shall be delinquent if not
paid by 4:00 p.m., 22 days after the date of the bill. If said date falls on a
weekend or holiday, payment will be accepted until 4:00 p.m. on the next
business day. All utility service charges not paid within that time shall incur
an administrative handling charge as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule to reflect the additional costs incurred by the city
in rebilling, sending delinquency notices, and otherwise handling the unpaid
account. Payment of this handling charge will be required to avoid
disconnection, and before reconnection.
(Prior Code, § 3-1103) (Ord. 2006-2782, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 2024-3092,
passed 1-20-2025)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to discontinue services and remove its
properties if the charges for the services are not paid within ten days after
the date that the same becomes delinquent. No public or private utility
company, including any utility owned and operated by the city, furnishing
water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this city shall discontinue
service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account
unless the utility company first gives notice to any subscriber whose service
is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be given in person, by first-
class mail, or by electronic delivery, except that electronic delivery shall
only be used if the subscriber has specifically elected to receive such notices
by electronic delivery. If notice is given by first-class mail or electronic
delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven days after notice is sent
or given. Holidays and weekends shall be excluded from the seven days. A public
or private utility company shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or
reconnection of utility service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing
such service.
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility's service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information may be included so long as it is not
inconsistent with this section.
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments
thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1102) (Ord. 2001-2599, passed 1-21-2002; Ord. 2021-3029,
passed 10-18-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602, 70-1605, 70-1606, 70-
1607, 70-1615
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The city may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts bypassing, tampering,
or unauthorized metering when the act results in damages to a municipal
utility. The city may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city shall
be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or loss
is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B) above, the city may
recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account of the bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not limited to,
disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit, and
reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant:
      (1)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the premises
where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to exist;
and
      (2)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 1710, passed 10-3-1983)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Superintendent duties
   
51.003   Inspections
   
51.004   Excavations
   
51.005   Unauthorized openings; protection against deposits
   
51.006   Unlawful deposits of waste
Sewer Connections
   
51.020   Permit required
   
51.021   Plumber liability
   
51.022   Connection methods; fee
Discharge
   
51.035   Prohibited water discharges
   
51.036   Discharge permit requirements
   
51.037   Hazardous or damaging discharge
   
51.038   Superintendent's remedies for hazardous or damaging discharge
   
51.039   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.040   Maintenance of preliminary treatment and flow equalizing facilities
   
51.041   Control manhole or sampling station
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.055   Allowance restricted; permit required; fee
   
51.056   Permit not effective until inspection
   
51.057   Specifications
Charges
   
51.070   Use charge purpose
   
51.071   Consumer classification
   
51.072   Determination of use charge
   
51.073   Purpose and calculation of use surcharge
   
51.074   Toxic waste charge increase
   
51.075   Charge for service outside city limit
Billing and Collection
   
51.090   General provision
   
51.091   Use of water meters; determination if meter unavailable
   
51.092   Charges as lien; collection of delinquent charges
   
51.093   Billing cycle; discontinuance of service for non-payment
   
51.094   Annual review of charges by classification; biannual notice of sewage
treatment apportionment
   
51.095   Disposition of collected charge funds
   
51.096   Special charges
Repair and Replacement
   
51.110   Duty of property owner
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of McCook, Nebraska.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of McCook, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven one
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer which carries storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewage Works and/or Water Pollution
Control of the City of McCook, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.002 SUPERINTENDENT DUTIES.
   The construction, repair, and maintenance of all sewers, drains and
cesspools, whether public or private, shall be under the supervision and
control of the Superintendent. The Office of the Superintendent may be combined
with any other office at any time by resolution of the City Council and the
person performing such duties shall receive the compensation as the Council
shall fix at the time the combination is made. Whenever the terms SEWER
SUPERVISOR or SEWER INSPECTOR are used in this chapter, they shall be
understood to mean the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.003 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing systems in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
municipal employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by municipal employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easements pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.004 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Excavations in the streets and alleys for sewer purposes shall be made
in a manner as to impede travel as little as possible, and the City Manager may
determine and limit the time the excavation may remain open and when
unnecessarily delayed, the City Manager may direct the number of workers be
increased to hasten the work to an extent as the City Manager may deem
necessary. Warning lights shall be maintained upon all unfinished work at
night, from dark to sunrise, and sufficient barricades shall be in place at all
times until the work is completed. The refilling of trenches shall be well and
thoroughly done in uniform layers of not exceeding six inches per lift and
mechanically packed or tamped to a compaction of 95% as directed by the Sewer
Inspector, or other agents of the city entrusted with the supervision of the
work, so as to replace all excavation materials and leave the surface in as
good of condition as found before the commencement of the work.
   (B)   Excavation and backfill must comply with local requirements and
specific requirements of the state. Special attention is directed to Title 29
Labor, Part 1518, Safety and Health Regulations for Constructions, and detailed
requirements of Subpart P, Excavations, Trenching and Shoring.
   (C)   Excavate for appurtenant structures to provide at least 12 inches
(minimum) clear distance between outer surface and embankment and in full
observation of safety rules. Trenches shall be excavated only to a width
sufficient to provide a free working space on each side of the pipe at the
bottom for backfilling and compacting around the pipe. Widths shall comply with
state requirements for trenching, provide adequate working space and pipe
clearances for proper pipe installation, jointing, and embedment. Cutting
trench banks on slopes to reduce earth load to prevent sliding and caving will
be permitted only in areas where the increased trench width will not interfere
with surface features, encroach on right-of-way limits, or require additional
removal and replacements. Slopes shall not extend lower than one foot above the
top of the pipe.
   (D)   Trenches greater than five feet in depth shall be properly braced and
shored, and the party excavating shall be liable for all damages arising by
reason of any neglect in this respect.
   (E)   Trenches shall be sheeted, shored and braced as necessary to comply
with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations. Compliance
with this requirement shall rest solely with the contractor. The sheeting,
shoring and bracing shall not be removed until backfilling has progressed to a
stage that no damage to utilities or structures will result from its removal.
   (F)   Brace trenches running near walls or columns to prevent any settlement
or other disturbance of walls or columns. Make trench excavation that runs
parallel to footing bottom with maximum slope of one to one.
   (G)   The contractor shall contain his or her work to public street and
highway rights-of-way and easements or shall be liable to damage claims for any
damages resulting from his or her operation.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 2002-2627, passed 8-5-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-232
§ 51.005 UNAUTHORIZED OPENINGS; PROTECTION AGAINST DEPOSITS.
   No person except the Utilities Director, Sewer Superintendent, Plumbing
Inspector, Chief of Police or a duly authorized assistant shall open or uncover
any manhole, flush tank, or private connection with the public sewer without
the permission of the Sewer Inspector or Plumbing Inspector, nor shall any
person leave openings in sewers without ample protection against admission of
dirt, rubbish, storm water, or other matter tending to block the flow of sewage
or overload the sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 2004-2707, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 2002-2613, passed
9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.006 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS OF WASTE.
   No person shall deposit any wash or waste water, liquid or solid filth, or
sewage, or permit this matter to be deposited upon any premises owned, occupied
or under his or her control, or upon any ground, or in any hold or vault in the
ground, except a cesspool, septic tank or sanitary privy which has been
approved by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 51.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to connect to any sewer line in the city without first
having obtained a permit to do so from the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
issue a sewer connection permit upon a certificate from the Building Inspector
that the applicant therefor has complied with all applicable building
regulations and upon receipt from the applicant of the sum set by ordinance of
the Council for each permit. The amount is set out herein in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to property located
within a duly established sewer improvement district of the city.
   (C)   In the event that the property for which a sewer connection fee has
been paid shall at a later date be included in a duly established sewer
improvement district, the amount paid as a connection fee shall be credited
upon any assessments that may be levied by reason of the improvement district.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.021 PLUMBER LIABILITY.
   The licensed plumber who connects with the public sewers shall be held
responsible on his or her bond for any damages he or she may cause to the
sewers, public streets, or alleys. He or she shall restore the streets or
alleys to the satisfaction of the Sewer Inspector, and make good any settlement
of ground or pavement caused by the excavations made by him or her under, or by
virtue of, any permit issued under the provisions of this chapter. In the event
of ground settling within one year after being refilled, the Sewer Inspector
shall have the right and it shall be his or her duty to demand and require the
restoration of the same by the party who made the excavation.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 51.022 CONNECTION METHODS; FEE.
   (A)   No connection to a sewer main or lateral of the city shall be made
prior to obtaining a permit from the city offices. The permit shall specify the
property to be served by the sewer tap, the size of the service line to be laid
into the sewer main, the method of entrance into the sewer main either through
an existing Y or T branch or by sewer saddle installed by the city, and other
information as may be deemed necessary and appropriate.
   (B)   Connections to the main sewer or laterals shall be made into an
existing Y or T branch installed at the time of the construction of the sewer
line, or into a Y or T saddle installed by the city. No other entrances shall
be made into the city sewer main other than those specified above. In those
cases where an entrance into the sewer main is requested which requires the
installation of a saddle by the city, the applicant will apply at least 24
hours in advance of the time that the tap is required, and shall comply with
all procedures required by the City Building Inspector in order to accomplish
the sewer tap, including the excavation of dirt down to the sewer line, the
clearing of dirt around the sewer at the point where the tap is requested, and
the proper back-filling around the sewer main after the saddle has been
installed. All excavations in the public streets or alleys shall be properly
back-filled and compacted and the original surface restored as nearly as
possible to the satisfaction of the City Building Inspector.
   (C)   Wherever practicable, every building shall have an independent
connection with a public or private sewer.
   (D)   Connection fees shall be set by ordinance and on file in the office of
the City Clerk. The fees are set out herein in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
DISCHARGE
§ 51.035 PROHIBITED WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.036 DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person permitting the discharge of water into a storm sewer or
watercourse shall comply with all federal, state, and municipal rules and
regulations. The person shall either obtain the required permits from the state
Department of Environmental Quality or connect to the city's sanitary sewer
system as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-210.01) (Ord. 2002-2628, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 51.037 HAZARDOUS OR DAMAGING DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair
and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having the following shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 250 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city.
      (7)   (a)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may
be necessary to:
            1.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million
by weight;
            2.   Reduce the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes.
         (b)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent and no construction of facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
      (8)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0 and 65°C).
      (9)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (11)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for these materials;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (15)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined herein.
      (16)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.038 SUPERINTENDENT'S REMEDIES FOR HAZARDOUS OR DAMAGING DISCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.037, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this section.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
   (B)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment
therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.039 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients, except that interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.040 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AND FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.041 CONTROL MANHOLE OR SAMPLING STATION.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.055 ALLOWANCE RESTRICTED; PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available
within 300 feet, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   At such a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private waste-water disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 60 days and the private sewage system shall be
abandoned in accordance with the state Department of Environmental Quality
Title 124, Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of
Septic Tank Systems. Any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
tamped sand or earth by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee, set by ordinance of the City
Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk, shall be paid to the
municipality at the time the application is filed. The fee is set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-222) (Ord. 97-2376, passed 3-17-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 51.056 PERMIT NOT EFFECTIVE UNTIL INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 51.057 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the state Department of Environmental Quality Title
124, Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic
Tank Systems. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet nor be within 50 feet of any private well or within 500 feet of any
municipal well. The soil absorption system shall have a set back of 100 feet
from any private well or 500 feet from any municipal well.
(Prior Code, § 3-224) (Ord. 97-2376, passed 3-17-1997)
CHARGES
§ 51.070 USE CHARGE PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
51.070 through
51.072 shall be to provide sufficient revenue for payment of the costs relative
to the city's sewage treatment and collection facilities. Costs to be provided
for include operation and maintenance, bond retirement, and equipment
replacement reserves. All costs shall be distributed equitably to all users of
the wastewater system.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.071 CONSUMER CLASSIFICATION.
   Any person whose premises are served by the sewerage system, including
tenants of the premises connected thereto, who in any way use same or discharge
or otherwise contribute to the sewage, industrial waste, water, night soil, or
other liquids either directly or indirectly into the sewerage system, shall
hereafter be designated as USER and shall be classified as follows.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All other users not previously herein classified, except
concerns depositing industrial wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Users who deposit industrial wastes into the sewerage
system including the following divisions of industries as identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented:
      (1)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B. Mining;
      (3)   Division D. Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services; and
      (5)   Division I. Services.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Users whose premises are used exclusively for residential
purposes by no more than two families.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.072 DETERMINATION OF USE CHARGES.
   (A)   Residential users served by the sewerage system shall pay the charges
provided for by ordinance of the City Council and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. Sewer charge shall be based on water consumed
annually during the months of December, January, and February. One-third of
that charge will be billed monthly, starting with the bill mailed on or about
May 1. In the case of multiple dwelling units or trailer courts served by a
single meter, the rate shall be the same as for residential units served by the
meter, provided the minimum charge for sewer service shall be the minimum
average charge times the number of units that have used any quantity of water
during the months of December, January, and February, or 333 cubic feet of
water usage times the number of units that have used any quantity of water
during those months, whichever is smaller. The sewage contribution of a new
residential user either within or without the corporate limits of the city with
no established winter months water record shall be based on the regular average
charge until such time as the base contribution of sewage is determined. Use of
minimum charge for schools during summer months will be determined by the city.
   (B)   Commercial users served by the sewage system shall pay the charges
provided by ordinance of the City Council and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. Sewer charge shall be based on water consumed during
the months of December, January, and February. One-third of that charge will be
billed monthly, starting with the bill mailed on or about May 1. In the case of
industries discharging only non-process related wastewater, the rate shall be
the same as for commercial users. In the case of vehicle washing facilities,
the rate shall be the same as for commercial users and based on water consumed
monthly.
   (C)   (1)   Industrial users contributing process waste to the sewerage
system shall be billed monthly and charged according to the average daily
contribution of flow, suspended solids, and BOD. The formula for determining
the total amount to be charged each industrial process waste contributor is as
follows:
    A = (1/3) C (Vu) + (1/3) C (Su) = (1/3) C (Bu)
         V      S      B
   Where      A=   Amount owed by industrial user for sewage treatment and
collection
         C=   Total sewage treatment collection expense for the year
         Vu=   Volume of flow from industrial user (gallons)
         V=   Total volume of flow to sewer system (gallons)
         Su=   Suspended solids from industrial user (pounds)
         S=      Total suspended solids to sewer system (pounds)
         Bu=   BOD from industrial user (pounds)
         B=   Total BOD to sewer system (pounds)
      (2)   Obtaining and analyzing sewage samples for use in determining the
industrial sewer use charge to be billed against a given industrial user shall
be the responsibility of the city and performed according to §
51.041 of this chapter.
   (D)   All sewage that is transported by truck or any vehicle to the plant
for disposal shall pay the charges provided for by ordinance of the City
Council and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-227) (Ord. 2001-2601, passed 1-21-2002; Ord. 2002-2620, passed
5-20-2002; Ord. 2016-2942, passed 10-17-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.073 PURPOSE AND CALCULATION OF USE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If the concentration of the sewage from any user, except those subject
to industrial charges, exceeds the level of 250 mg/l BOD and 300 mg/l suspended
solids, they shall be subject to a surcharge for that portion of the
contribution which exceeds those limits. Any industrial user which discharges
an amount of flow, BOD, or suspended solids in excess of their allocated
industrial capacity as documented in letters of intent submitted to the state
Department of Environmental Control and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall be subject to a surcharge for that portion of the contribution
which exceeds their allocated industrial capacity. The formula for determining
the surcharge is as follows:
   Surcharge= [BC (B)+SC (S)+PC (P)]
   BC=   Cost for plant operation and maintenance and plant equipment
replacement of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
   B=   Concentration of BOD from a user above base level
   SC=   Cost for plant operation and maintenance and plant equipment
replacement of a unit of suspended solids
   S=   Concentration of suspended solids from a user above base level
   PC=   Cost for plant operation and maintenance and plant equipment
replacement of a unit of any pollutant
   P=   Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
   (B)   If the experienced additional cost associated with high strength
wastes are not recovered by the industrial rate charges or above surcharges,
the city shall have the option to review the effect any user (all
classifications) has on the wastewater system and establish a higher rate, if
necessary, for the excessive amount of BOD, SS, or other applicable pollutants.
   (C)   Any user who violates the limitations of this section or discharges a
contaminate that proves detrimental to the proper operation of the sewage
treatment facilities shall be liable for its proportionate share of any and all
fines and penalties assessed against the city as a result of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.074 TOXIC WASTE CHARGE INCREASE.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city's treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
the increased costs. The charge to each user shall be as determined by the
responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.075 CHARGE FOR SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   For connection with and service by the municipal sewerage system, each user
outside the city shall pay a sewer use charge as prescribed in §
51.071. Connections with systems outside the corporate limits of the city may
be made only when permission therefor is granted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
BILLING AND COLLECTION
§ 51.090 GENERAL PROVISION.
   The sewer use charges prescribed by this chapter shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner and by the same officers as water charges are
collected by the city.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.091 USE OF WATER METERS; DETERMINATION IF METER UNAVAILABLE.
   (A)   The sewer use charges pursuant to this chapter shall be applied
separately to each individual water meter which measures water contributing to
or discharging into the city sewerage system and shall be determined by the
water meter readings for water furnished by the water works system of the city
or by privately owned water supply which may contribute to or discharge into
the sewerage system. In the case of unmetered water supply, the quantity of
water used and discharged into the sewerage system shall be determined to the
satisfaction of the City Manager at the expense of the owner of the unmetered
water supply. If the quantity of unmetered water discharged into the sewerage
system is estimated by the City Manager to be in excess of the amount permitted
to be used under the minimum charge as applied to the user, the City Manager
may require that the water supply be metered at the expense of the owner or
user thereof.
   (B)   Should any meter get out of order or repair and fail to register
properly, the user using the meter will be charged at the average quarterly
consumption as shown by the meter when in order for six months previous, or
fraction thereof if the same has not been used that long.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.092 CHARGES AS LIEN; COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   All sewer use charges prescribed by this chapter shall be a lien upon the
premises and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used and
if not paid when due, the charge shall be certified to the City Treasurer and
may be recovered by the city in an action at law and it may be certified to the
County Clerk and assessed against the real estate and premises served, and be
collected and returned in the same manner as other city taxes are certified,
assessed, collected, and returned.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.093 BILLING CYCLE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   Bills for sewer use charges pursuant to this chapter shall be rendered at
the same time that bills are rendered for water service, and all sewer use
charges levied by this chapter which are not paid at or before water service
charges are required to be paid, shall be deemed to be delinquent and the water
service of the user may be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.094 ANNUAL REVIEW OF CHARGES BY CLASSIFICATION; BIANNUAL NOTICE OF SEWAGE
TREATMENT APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   The sewer use charges for all user classifications established in this
chapter shall be reviewed annually to assure equity of the sewer use charges
established herein, and revised, as necessary, to reflect actual sewage
treatment and collection costs. Each user shall be notified at least bi-
annually of that portion of the sewer use charges which are attributable to
sewage treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
   (B)   The provisions of §§
51.070 through
51.075, and
51.090 through
51.096 do not apply to water discharged into the storm sewers.
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.095 DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED CHARGE FUNDS.
   (A)   All moneys collected from sewer use charges pursuant to this chapter
shall be set aside and placed in one of three separate accounts. That portion
of the sewer use charge attributable to the operation and maintenance of the
sewage treatment and collection facilities shall be deposited in a (non-
lapsing) fund to be used only for the purpose of defraying operation and
maintenance costs of the treatment and collection facilities. Funds transferred
from other revenue sources to meet temporary shortages in the operation and
maintenance account shall be refunded following an appropriate adjustment in
the portion of the sewer use charge allocated for operation and maintenance of
the sewage treatment and collection facilities.
   (B)   A non-lapsing account shall be established to accrue funds to provide
adequate revenues to meet equipment replacement needs of the sewage treatment
plant and shall be used for no other purpose. REPLACEMENT is defined in the
Federal Regulations as "Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed."  A non-lapsing account shall be established for
the deposit of funds to be used only for the purpose of paying the interest and
principal of the revenue bonds issued on the sewage treatment facility. This
and the two other accounts shall carry over fiscal year-end balances to meet
costs in the subsequent fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 51.096 SPECIAL CHARGES.
   Where, in the judgment of the City Council, special conditions surround the
use of city water to the extent that the application of the service charges,
rates or rentals as specified in this chapter would be inequitable and unfair
to either the city or the user, the Council shall establish a special rate
applying to the user. The special rates when adopted by ordinance shall apply
to all users under like circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT
§ 51.110 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   The City Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Director may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (Prior Code, § 3-241) (Ord. 1756, passed 10-1-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof shall be fined in the amount not less than $25 and not exceeding $100
for each violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-240)
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disconnect any sewer which has not been
properly connected according to the procedures as set out in this chapter. In
addition, any person who installs a connection into a sewer line in a manner
not provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of
$100.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225, 16-681
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water Department operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Application for service; contract terms; deposit
   
52.04   Contract non-transferrable
   
52.05   Service to non-residents
   
52.06   Right to inspect by Superintendent
   
52.07   Water use restrictions
   
52.08   Destruction of Water Department property
   
52.09   Pollution of source water prohibited
   
52.10   Regulations enforced by Police Department
   
52.11   Limitation of city liability
   
52.12   Restrictions on hydrant use
Construction
   
52.25   Installation requirements
   
52.26   Installation expense
   
52.27   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.28   (Reserved)
   
52.29   Licensed plumber required
   
52.30   Industrial fire mains; charge
Charges and Billing
   
52.45   Fees and collections
   
52.46   Payment due date
   
52.47   Delinquent payment; charge as lien
   
52.48   Diverting water prohibited
Water Conservation, Drought and Emergency Plan
   
52.60   Purpose
   
52.61   Classes of water use
   
52.62   Definitions
   
52.63   Water plan established
   
52.64   Plan enforcement
   
52.65   Emergency termination
   
52.66   Permit for exemptions
Cross Connection Control
   
52.78   General policy and purpose; applicability of subchapter
   
52.79   Definitions
   
52.80   Cross connections prohibited
   
52.81   Survey and investigations; responsibilities of consumer
   
52.82   Type of protection required
   
52.83   Premises where protection is required
   
52.84   Approved backflow prevention devices
   
52.85   Installation of backflow prevention devices
   
52.86   Inspection and maintenance of backflow prevention devices
   
52.87   Violations; abatement actions
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER DEPARTMENT OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the City Water Department through the
Utilities Director. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the care, management, and maintenance of the City Water Department, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The
Utilities Director shall have the direct management and control of the City
Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Utilities Director shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department
subject to the supervision and review of the City Manager and the governing
body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. The rates are also set
out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 2004-2707, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 2002-2613, passed
9-2-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-618
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-675, 19-1305
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in, the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premise may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box,
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; CONTRACT TERMS; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make
application therefor to the Utilities Director. Water may not be supplied to
any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the Utilities
Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
   (B)   (1)   From and after the date of this section, all new water customers
will be required to sign an application for service, and all new water
customers and all water customers whose water has been shut off by reason of
delinquency of payment of the customers shall pay a deposit for the purpose of
guaranteeing the payment of current bills. The deposit shall be an amount set
by ordinance of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk.
The amount is also set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
      (2)   In addition, the City Manager may demand from any customer or
prospective customer a security deposit for the purpose of guaranteeing payment
of current bills in a sum not to exceed the estimated amount of a 90-day bill
for each customer. Following a period of one year after which the deposit has
been on account with the city, if the payment record of the customer indicates
that they have had no delinquent bills for 12 consecutive months, and that no
other condition exists which would require retention of the security deposit,
the deposit shall be refunded to the customer without interest. At the time of
termination of water service the deposit shall be returned to the customer,
less all outstanding obligations for water, sewer, trash collection and
recycling service due to the city. If a water account is shut off by reason of
delinquency in payment, the water meter shall be read out and all obligations
to the city for water charges shall be deducted from the deposit on hand if a
deposit exists. Deposit money in excess of the charges, less unpaid sewer,
trash collection fees, and recycling fees, shall be returned to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
   (C)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to the consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which contract both parties are bound. If the consumer
shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and
regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Director
or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the water service from the
building or premise or place of the violation. No further connection for water
service to the building, premise, or place shall again be made save or except
by order of the Water Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
(Ord. 1891, passed 1-29-1990; Ord. 2001-2594, passed 1-21-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.04 CONTRACT NON-TRANSFERRABLE.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Water Superintendent who shall cause the water service
to be shut off at the premise. If the consumer should fail to give notice, he
or she shall be charged for all water used on the premise until the Water
Superintendent is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.05 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body, provided
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 RIGHT TO INSPECT BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utilities Director, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.07 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Immediately upon the occurrence of a fire alarm, all persons shall cease
using water for all but domestic purposes and shall not resume other uses until
notice or permission has been given by the city. No person shall turn the water
on or off at any premises owned or controlled by him or her without first
giving the Utilities Director written notice of his or her intention and
securing written permission to do so. In case of a general water shortage, the
use of water for domestic purposes shall take precedence over its use for all
other purposes. Furthermore, the city may establish other water use priorities
beneath domestic use as it may deem necessary and appropriate in dealing with a
water shortage. Also in dealing with a water shortage, the city may establish
such rationing procedures as it may deem necessary and appropriate in dealing
with the water shortage.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.08 DESTRUCTION OF WATER DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 52.09 POLLUTION OF SOURCE WATER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.10 REGULATIONS ENFORCED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
    It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Water
Department all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225
§ 52.11 LIMITATION OF CITY LIABILITY.
   The city shall in no manner be liable for any damages caused by the shutting
off of the supply of water from any consumer while the water system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs, or for damages caused by the freezing of the
water main or the breaking of any pipe or service cock, or by a shortage of
water due to accident, or by circumstances over which the city has not control
or by an act of God.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.12 RESTRICTIONS ON HYDRANT USE.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or any officer
in charge, or members of the Water Department, to open or attempt to open any
of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to interfere
with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2584, passed
11-19-2001; Ord. 2002-2613, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
CONSTRUCTION
§ 52.25 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Director shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Director. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service is restored. It
shall be the customer's responsibility to notify the Utilities Director at the
time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations,
and specifications prescribed for the installation by the Utilities Director,
provided that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and
approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.26 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The city shall supply and pay the cost of the curb stops. The city shall
supply and the customers shall pay the cost of the water meter and corporation
cock. The city shall tap the main, install the meter and install all fixtures
up to and including the curb stop. No person other than the Utilities Director,
or his or her duly authorized agents shall tap the water main. The customer
shall pay a tap fee which shall cover the cost of all installation done by the
city. The customer shall at his or her own expense bring water service from the
curb stop and upon his or her own premise and shall employ a licensed plumber
who shall install water service to the place of disbursement. The extension of
commercial mains into unsupplied territory with the corporate limits may be
made by means of water extension districts.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 2004-2707, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 2002-2613, passed
9-2-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.27 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his or her
own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box
to the place of disbursement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities
Director shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense
of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Director. All water meters
shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the expense of the municipality.
When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality
at the expense of the municipality, provided that if the customer permits or
allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or destroyed through his or her own
recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or
replaced, the municipality shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
the meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times, provided that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the municipality. The
municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time,
and if the meter is found to be beyond repair the municipality shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer's water service fixtures at
municipal expense. Should a customer's meter fail to register properly, the
customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair
on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding
year, provided that if no basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be
charged an amount as may be reasonably fixed by the municipality. It shall be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or
device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass
through the meter or while passing through the meter, to cause the same to
register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 2002-2613, passed 9-2-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.28 (RESERVED).
§ 52.29 LICENSED PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of water works, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the system until the plumber or pipefitter shall have first procured a
license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done in the
manner required by the Utilities Director and Building Inspector. The licensed
plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and approval of the
Utilities Director and/or Building Inspector and it shall be further unlawful
to cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.30 INDUSTRIAL FIRE MAINS; CHARGE.
   If proprietors of lumber yards, manufactories, flouring mills, halls,
stores, elevators, warehouses, hotels, or public buildings, whose
establishments are regular consumers of water from the city waterworks, wish to
lay larger pipe with hydrants and hose couplings, to be used only in case of
fire, they will be permitted to connect the hydrants with street mains at their
own expense, upon application to the Utilities Director, and under his or her
direction, and will be allowed the use of water for fire purposes only, free of
charge.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
CHARGES AND BILLING
§ 52.45 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk and
are set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or
allowed by the governing body. No water service shall be furnished to any
customer at a rate that is different from other customers of the same class or
type. Without respect to schedule of rates for other customers, the governing
body may enter into special contracts with large consumers of water, but never
at a rate less than the cost of production, provided that the contract shall
always provide that the large consumer shall always pay the minimum rate for
other customers and the contract shall be made on the basis of water consumed
in excess of the minimum. A meter shall always be attached to the water service
of such a contract consumer and read monthly as in the case of other classes of
water consumers.
   (B)   Water service furnished to the other departments of the municipality
and to other governmental subdivisions of the state shall be measured and
billed for at rates as the governing body shall set from time to time without
respect to the schedule of rates on file at the office of the City Clerk, but
never at rates that do not cover the cost of providing water. Whenever water
service is supplied to more than one customer through the same supply pipe,
each customer shall pay the minimum water service charge each month. In the
event that two or more customers are supplied through the same meter, the owner
of the premise shall pay for all water consumed thereon plus separate minimums.
One bill only shall be computed for each meter.
(Ord. 2006-2786, passed 12-18-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.46 PAYMENT DUE DATE.
   Water rents shall be due and payable on the date that the water bills are
tendered to the customer. Rents or rates for building and other special
purposes shall be payable upon demand. The owner of rented premises will in all
cases be held primarily responsible for charges for water used on premises
which are owned by the owner, whether the water was consumed by himself or
herself or others, provided that water rents at the premises are in arrears.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) (Ord. 2001-2596, passed 1-21-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.47 DELINQUENT PAYMENT; CHARGE AS LIEN.
   (A)   On any premises for which water charges have not been paid within 25
days after they have become due, the Utilities Director shall begin the
discontinuance of service process, complying with the requirements of §
50.02. When the water is turned off by reason of failure to pay, the water
shall not be turned on until the customer has paid all delinquent water
charges, has paid a security deposit as prescribed in §
52.03, and in addition thereto has paid a reconnection fee set by ordinance of
the City Council. The fee shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and
is set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the municipality for water services furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The City Clerk shall report regularly to
the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for water, together with a
description of the premise upon which the same was used. Any delinquent water
charges which remain unpaid for a period of three months may be assessed by
resolution against the real estate where supplied as a special tax assessment.
(Ord. 2001-2597, passed 1-21-2002; Ord. 2001-2598, passed 1-21-2002)
   (C)   The city shall notify in writing nonoccupying owners of premises or
their agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days delinquent in the
payment of water rent. Thereafter, if the owner of the real estate or his or
her agent within the city shall notify the Council in writing to discontinue
water service to the real estate or the occupants thereof, it shall be the duty
of the officer in charge of the Water Department promptly to discontinue the
service; and rentals for any water furnished to the occupants of the real
estate in violation of the notice shall not be a lien thereon.
(Neb. RS 16-682)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.48 DIVERTING WATER PROHIBITED.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe under the premise for alteration, extension, or
attachment, without the written permission of the Utilities Director. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-681
WATER CONSERVATION; DROUGHT AND EMERGENCY PLAN
§ 52.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
52.60 through
52.66 is to adopt a plan for the declaration of a water supply watch, warning,
or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory water
conservation measures throughout the city in the event such a watch, warning,
or emergency is declared. This plan shall be named the City of McCook Water
Conservation, Drought and Emergency Contingency Plan.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 2004-2689, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 52.61 CLASSES OF WATER USE.
   The following classes of water use are hereby established for users of water
on the city water system.
   CLASS 1. Water used for outdoor watering: either public or private, for
gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools, or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure.
   CLASS 2. Water used for any commercial or industrial purpose, including
agricultural, except water actually necessary to maintain the health and
personal hygiene of bona fide employees while the employees are engaged in the
performance of their duties at their place of employment.
   CLASS 3. Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in either
Classes 1 or 2. Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.01) (Ord. 2004-2689, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 52.62 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the city
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   DRAW DOWN. The distance between the static water level and the pumping water
level.
   PLAN. City of McCook Water Conservation, Drought and Emergency Contingency
Plan.
   PUMPING WATER LEVEL. The level of water in a well when the pump is pumping.
   STATIC WATER LEVEL. The level of water in a well when the pump is not
pumping.
   TRIGGERS. Significant events which indicate the implementation of the
different stages of the Plan.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface
drain;
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing; or
      (3)   As determined by the water system operator.
   WATER. Water available to the city by virtue of its water rights introduced
by the city into its water distribution system including water offered for sale
at any coin-operated site.
   WATER SYSTEM CAPACITY. For the purposes of the Plan, water system capacity
is determined by aggregate production of all wells in gallons per minute times
60 minutes in any hour times 24 hours per day.
   WATER SYSTEM DEMAND. Water meters on each well must be read daily. Daily
consumption is calculated by subtracting the previous day reading from the
current day and added together for each well.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.02) (Ord. 2004-2689, passed 3-15-2004)
§ 52.63 WATER PLAN ESTABLISHED. 
   In order to assure the continued supply of safe drinking water to the
citizens of the city, the City Council adopts the following plan addressing
conservation, drought and emergency contingencies. The plan is based upon
demand on the system and implements a series of stages depending upon the
severity of the demand.
   (A)   Stage I: Water Watch 
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions: When system capacity reaches four million gallons per day for five
days consecutive.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public regarding water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the water
supply system.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city may make occasional news releases to the local media,
as well as posting at City Hall, describing present conditions and indicating
the regulatory action.
         (b)   The triggers necessitating the Stage I: Water Watch may also be
made available to the news media along with an explanation of terms.
      (4)   Management action.
         (a)   The city will ascertain that each well is operating at peak
efficiency.
         (b)   Leaks detected will be repaired within 72 hours.
         (c)   The city shall reduce Class 1 uses.
      (5)   Regulatory action. The public may be asked to voluntarily reduce
the use of water as defined in Class 1.
      (6)   Declaration of a water watch. Whenever the City Manager or the
Utilities Director finds that conditions exist as described in the plan under
Stage I: Water Watch, Triggers, they shall declare a Stage I: Water Watch, and
implement the steps outlined under this section. The implementation declaring
the existence and end of a Stage I: Water Watch shall be effective upon issuing
of news releases and posting at City Hall.
   (B)   Stage II: Water Warning. 
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions: System capacity reaches four and one-half million gallons per day
for five consecutive days.
      (2)   Goals. The goal of this stage is to reduce demand and lighten the
burden on existing water wells and the Water Treatment Plant.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city may make weekly news releases to the local media and by
posting, describing present conditions and projecting the outlook for the
coming week.
         (b)   The triggers necessitating the Stage II: Water Warning may also
be made available to the public through news releases and posting at City Hall
along with an explanation of terms.
         (c)   Water conservation articles may be provided to the local
newspaper and posted at City Hall.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city will continue to monitor water supplies on a daily
basis.
         (b)   Leaks shall be repaired within 72 hours or a violation notice
shall be issued.
         (c)   The city may terminate its usage of water classified in Class 1
and Class 2.
      (5)   Regulation action.
         (a)   Water classified as Class 1 and Class 2 will be terminated
except as follows:
            1.   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing
will be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.
            2.   Waste of water is strictly prohibited.
      (6)   Declaration of a water warning. Whenever the City Manager or the
Utilities Director finds that conditions exist as described in the plan under
Stage II: Water Warning, Triggers, they shall declare a Stage II: Water
Warning, and implement the steps outlined under this section. The
implementation declaring the existence and end of a Stage II; Water Warning
shall be effective upon a news release and posting at City Hall.
   (C)   Stage III: Water Emergency.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   When system capacity has reached five million gallons per day on
two consecutive days.
         (b)   This stage may or can be implemented at anytime because of the
following reasons:
            1.   The loss of a municipal well or booster pump;
            2.   A large main break;
            3.   Loss of power due to unknown reasons;
            4.   Large fire;
            5.   Undetermined reasons specified by water operator;
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce the overall weekly
consumption and maintain the integrity of the system.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city may make weekly news releases to the local media and by
posting, describing present conditions and projecting the outlook for the
coming week.
         (b)   The triggers necessitating the Stage III: Water Emergency may
also be made available to the public through news releases and posting at City
Hall along with an explanation of terms.
         (c)   Water conservation articles may be provided to the local
newspaper and posted.
         (d)   The city may conduct public meetings to discuss the emergency,
the status of the city water supply, and further actions which may need to be
taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies shall be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks shall be repaired within 24 hours. This includes private
and city leaks.
         (c)   The city may seek additional emergency supplies from other
sources.
      (5)   Regulation actions.
         (a)   Uses of water in Class 1 and 2 shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Waste of water shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Declaration of a water emergency. Whenever the governing body of
the city finds that conditions exist as described in this plan under Stage III:
Water Emergency, Triggers, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a Stage III: Water Emergency exists and implement the steps outlined under
this plan. The resolution declaring the existence of a Stage III: Water
Emergency shall be effective upon news release and/or posting at City Hall. In
the event of a system failure, or natural disaster, the City Manager or the
Utilities Director shall have the authority to declare a Stage III: Water
Emergency. Within 24 hours after the aforementioned Water Emergency
declaration, the City Council shall declare a Stage III: Water Emergency by
resolution. The City Manager or the Utilities Director shall declare the end of
a Stage III: Water Emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.03) (Ord. 2004-2716, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 52.64 PLAN ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Warning. The City Council hereby appoints the City Manager and the
Utilities Director or their agent(s) to issue written warnings to any consumer
violating Stage II: Water Warning and Stage III: Water Emergency. The warning
shall advise the consumer that a second violation at the same premise within a
six-month period shall result in the issuance of an administrative notice of
violation.
   (B)   Administrative notice of violation. The City Council hereby appoints
the City Manager and the Utilities Director or their agent(s) to issue a
written administrative notice of violation to any consumer violating Stage II:
Water Warning and Stage III: Water Emergency for a second time within a six-
month period. The notice shall advise the consumer that his or her water rate
to the premises shall be double for the next two months and that a subsequent
violation at the same premise within a six-month period shall result in the
water rate to the premises to be double for the next six months. The consumer
shall further be notified that he or she has a right to appeal the issuance of
the administrative notice of violation by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within ten days of the issuance of the notice. The action shall be
final if no appeal is filed within the ten-day period. The City Manager and the
Utilities Director shall hear the appeal within ten days.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.04) (Ord. 2004-2716, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 52.65 EMERGENCY TERMINATION.
   Nothing in this plan shall limit the ability of the City Manager or the
Utilities Director to terminate the supply of water to any or all customers
upon the determination of the officials that emergency termination of water
service is required to protect the health and safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.05) (Ord. 2004-2716, passed 11-1-2004)
§ 52.66 PERMIT FOR EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Customers may apply for and be granted permits for:
      (1)   New turf sod application for up to three weeks;
      (2)   New grass seed application for up to four weeks. However, the city
strongly discourages new grass seed between July 1 and August 31; and
      (3)   Landscape in large common or public areas that, because of
irrigation system limitations, cannot be sustained by following mandatory
drought restrictions in §§
52.60 through
52.66.
   (B)   The above may be canceled by the city in the event a Stage III: Water
Emergency is declared.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.07) (Ord. 2004-2689, passed 3-15-2004)
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.78 GENERAL POLICY AND PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to:
      (1)   Protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating real or
potential sources of contamination or pollutants which may backflow or cause
back siphonage through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system, as required by Title 179, NAC 2, Regulations Governing Public
Water Supply Systems;
      (2)   Promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer's potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by
the public potable water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted as the city's intent
to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the
degree of protection shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The City Water Department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross connections. The consumer is
responsible for preventing contamination of the water system within the
consumer's own premises.
      (3)   If, in the judgment of the Water Department or the state's
Department of Health or their authorized representative, cross connection
protection is required through either piping modification or installation of an
approved backflow prevention device, 30 days' notice shall be given to the
consumer. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to
provide requested protection within 30 days shall make the consumer subject to
discontinuance of water service at the discretion of the Water Department,
according to the degree of hazard, without further notice.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.79 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system, provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water supply
system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to the
health and well-being of the water consumer.
      HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      HAZARD, POLLUTION. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer's potable water system which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which, does adversely and
unreasonably affect the water for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the appropriate
state or local regulatory agency.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the term
SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The owner, operator or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.80 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections as required by the laws
and regulations of the state to the public potable or consumer's water system
may exist.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer's water system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices of the latest
edition of the International Plumbing Code as considered by the city's Water
Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.81 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS; RESPONSIBILITIES OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   The consumer shall provide access to the premises at reasonable times
to the city's Water Department, or its authorized representative, for the
conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer's premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross
connections to the consumer's water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the city's Water Department or its authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.82 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows. An approved air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device or an approved
dual checkvalve assembly shall be installed where the public potable water
system may be polluted with substances that could cause a health hazard.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.83 PREMISES WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed in the
service connection line to a consumer's water system or within any premises
where actual or potential hazards to the public potable water system exist. The
type and degree of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where the nature and extent of activities on the premises, or the
materials used in connection with the activities, or materials stored on the
premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a
cross connection occur, even though the cross connection may not exist at the
time the backflow prevention device is required to be installed. This includes
but is not limited to the following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to ensure that cross connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises that although not covered by this subchapter are subject
to frequent modification which would change their status, or premises that have
had violations of this subchapter;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; and/or
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that, if siphonage or back pressure should occur, a serious health hazard
may result.
   (C)   The following types of facilities must install or have in operation an
approved air gap separation, atmospheric vacuum breaker, pressure vacuum
breaker, dual checkvalve assembly, or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device as required by the city’s Water Department to protect the
public water supply, and the equipment must be installed at these facilities
unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated
or corrected:
      (1)   Auxiliary water systems;
      (2)   Beverage bottling plants and food processing plants;
      (3)   Canneries, packinghouses and reduction plants;
      (4)   Carwashing facilities and automobile servicing facilities;
      (5)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
      (6)   Chemically contaminated water systems;
      (7)   Dairies and cold storage plants;
      (8)   Film laboratories, film development facilities and testing
laboratories;
      (9)   Fire protection systems;
      (10)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal;
      (11)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing and convalescent homes and
medical facilities;
      (12)   Sprinkler systems and hose connections injecting directly material
of a toxic or hazardous nature;
      (13)   Laundries and dye works and dry cleaners;
      (14)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating plants;
      (15)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
      (16)   Plating plants;
      (17)   Printing and publishing facilities;
      (18)   Research and analytical laboratories;
      (19)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities pumping stations;
      (20)   Zoological and horticultural gardens;
      (21)   All cemetery sprinkler systems;
      (22)   Pet grooming and veterinarian facilities, kennels, stockyards and
feedyards;
      (23)   Swimming pools;
      (24)   Cooling coil service lines (refrigeration, air conditioning and
the like);
      (25)   All hot water and steam boiler heating systems with water
recirculating;
      (26)   Lawn irrigation systems. All lawn irrigation systems must have a
pressure vacuum breaker or dual checkvalve assembly;
      (27)   Hose connections. All garden hose type connections must have hose
bib vacuum breakers;
      (28)   Yard hydrants. The installation of new or replacement yard
hydrants where water is available or accessible for drinking or culinary
purposes, and which have a drip opening below the ground surface, is prohibited
unless the hydrants are equipped with an approved device to prevent entrance of
groundwater into chambers connected with the water supply. Yard hydrants or
hose bibs which would be used by the consumer to provide water to mix
pesticides, fertilizer or other chemicals for direct use or aerial application
to surface areas shall be equipped with an anti-siphon vacuum breaker;
      (29)   Booster pumps. No person shall install or maintain a water service
connection to any premises where a booster pump has been installed on the
service line to or within such premises, unless the booster pump is equipped
with a low pressure cutoff designed to shut off the booster pump when the
pressure in the service line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds
per square inch gauge or less. It shall be the duty of the customer to maintain
the low pressure cutoff device in proper working order. The Utilities Director
may require testing at any time if it is suspected that a problem exists with
the device; and
      (30)   Multistoried buildings greater than three stories. These
facilities, falling into one or more of the categories listed in this section,
will be given six months after passage of the ordinance from which this
subchapter is derived to comply with this subchapter, except those facilities
or systems which are determined by the city's Water Department to be an
immediate or severe health hazard, in which case that system or facility shall
be required to comply immediately with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.84 APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of
a model or construction approved by the city's Water Department.
      (1)   An air gap separation, to be approved, shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of
the vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
      (2)   A double checkvalve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the city's Water Department and
shall appear on the current list of approved backflow prevention devices
established by the Water Department.
   (B)   Existing testable backflow prevention devices approved by the water
purveyor at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
this subchapter so long as the city's Water Department is assured that they
will satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the existing device is
moved from its present location, or requires more than minimum maintenance, or
when the Water Department finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.85 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed by a licensed plumber at a location and in a manner approved by the
city's Water Department or according to the latest edition of the International
Plumbing Code, and shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer's water system shall be located on the consumer's side of the water
meter, and prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, and protected from freezing, and where
no part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices for underground sprinklers that have an
opening to the atmosphere shall be located at least 12 inches from the bottom
of the valve above the highest ground served by the sprinkler system.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.86 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this subchapter are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made by licensed state-certified backflow
tester/repair technicians in accordance with the following schedule, or more
often where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double checkvalve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed, and at least every three years.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed, and at least every five years.
   (B)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the expense
of the water consumer and shall be performed by a state-certified backflow
prevention device tester.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices designed with testing cocks shall be
inspected and tested each year, and the tests shall be performed by a state-
certified backflow prevention device tester and will be at the expense of the
water consumer except as stated in division (G) below.
   (D)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (E)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device that has test cocks, from purchase to retirement. Records of
inspections, tests, repairs and overhauls performed by others shall be
submitted to the city's Water Department annually.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective.
   (G)   Lawn irrigation backflow devices designed with testing cocks shall be
inspected and tested at the time of installation and at least every three years
thereafter. The tests shall be performed by a state-certified backflow
prevention device tester and will be at the expense of the water consumer.
   (H)   Further regulations concerning the installation of sprinkler systems
and backflow prevention devices are found in the latest edition of the
International Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.87 VIOLATIONS; ABATEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   The city's Water Department or water purveyor shall have the right to
deny or discontinue, after 10 days' notice to the occupants thereof, the water
service to any premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by this
subchapter is not installed, tested and maintained in a manner acceptable to
the city's Water Department; if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed; if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises; or if the consumer fails to provide the periodic survey as requested
according to §
52.81 of the subchapter.
   (B)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
subchapter to the satisfaction of the city's Water Department.
   (C)   The appropriate state or local regulatory agency, City Manager, and
City Council shall be advised of inspection findings, and the violation
abatement action pursued by the city's Water Department, and consulted prior to
violation abatement action on items having to do with public health
significance.
(Ord. 2024-3092, passed 1-20-2025)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
52.60 through
52.66 shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply. The City
Council hereby appoints the police officers to issue citations for violation of
the provisions of §§
52.60 through
52.66.
(Prior Code, § 3-128.06) (Ord. 2004-2689, passed 3-15-2004)
CHAPTER 53: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Fire Department
   
53.01   General regulations
Police Department
   
53.15   Duties of Department
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 53.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   A Fire Department is hereby created and shall consist of the Fire Chief and
other personnel positions as the City Council shall determine from time to
time. The compensation of the members of the Fire Department shall be as may be
fixed by the City Council. The Fire Chief and all members of the Fire
Department shall be appointed and removed by the City Manager. The Fire Chief
and members of the Fire Department shall be subject to the control of the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222, 16-308, 16-309, 19-618
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 53.15 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and a
further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution
of the Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the City
Manager, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the department. He or she shall devote his
or her whole time to the city affairs, interests of the city, and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof.
   (B)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws. It shall be the
duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There
shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice
of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places, and residences of the city. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police
officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city, and
shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints
against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225, 16-323
CHAPTER 54: CITY PARKS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Parks Department
   
54.001   Operation and funding
   
54.002   Injury to park property
City Swimming Pool
   
54.015   Operation and funding
   
54.016   Rules and regulations
City Library
   
54.025   Operation and funding
   
54.026   Book disposal; records
   
54.027   Rules and regulations
   
54.028   Issuance of books
   
54.029   Damaged and lost books; book removal
   
54.030   Permissible fees and costs
   
54.031   Duty to turn over monies collected
City Auditorium
   
54.045   Ownership
   
54.046   Rental of Auditorium and charges
   
54.047   Rental agreement
   
54.048   Payment of charges and deposit
   
54.049   Seating capacity
   
54.050   Rehearsals and set up
   
54.051   Fire safety
   
54.052   Use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages
   
54.053   Surrender of reservation
   
54.054   Removal of equipment
   
54.055   Outside use of water or electrical connections
Public Parks
   
54.065   Definition
   
54.066   Hours of operation
Cemeteries: General Provisions
   
54.080   Designation of plats
   
54.081   Burial permits
   
54.082   Lot conveyance certificate
   
54.083   Permanent park space
   
54.084   Lot and columbarium niche price; no price lots
   
54.085   Removal of remains for unpaid lot
   
54.086   Gravedigger
   
54.087   Price for opening of grave
   
54.088   Perpetual care
   
54.089   Funeral direction
   
54.090   Interment; prerequisites
   
54.091   Disinterment
   
54.092   Children in cemetery
   
54.093   Limitation of city financial responsibility
   
54.094   Cemetery traffic regulation
   
54.095   Lot improvements
   
54.096   Firearms prohibited
   
54.097   Entrance only through established gate
   
54.098   Disturbance of horticulture prohibited
   
54.099   Dogs prohibited
   
54.100   No trespassing allowed
   
54.101   Injury of property prohibited
Cemeteries : Monuments and Markers
   
54.115   Location; permit; fee
   
54.116   Monument firm bond required
   
54.117   Installation requirements
   
54.118   Permitted materials
   
54.119   Corner posts
   
54.120   Removal
Cemeteries : Specific Provisions
   
54.130   Riverview Cemetery location and description
   
54.131   Memorial Park location and description
   
54.132   Memorial Park alley usage
   
54.133   Memorial Park permanent park space designation
   
54.134   Memorial Park park space lots not for sale
   
54.135   Location and description of First Addition to Memorial Park; plat
recording and filing
   
54.136   First Addition to Memorial Park plantings, structures and flower
receptacles
   
54.137   Markers and monuments: First Addition to Memorial Park
 
   
54.999   Penalty
CITY PARKS DEPARTMENT
§ 54.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city parks and other recreational areas. The
Public Works Director, under the direction of the City Manager, shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the
city parks and other recreational areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-695 through 16-697.02
§ 54.002 INJURY TO PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the city parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on
or litter the city parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
35.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248
CITY SWIMMING POOL
§ 54.015 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the City Swimming Pool. The Public Works Director
shall manage the swimming pool. The Director shall have the power and authority
to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and any employees as he or she
may deem necessary and shall pass rules and regulations for the operation of
the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by
the Director shall be under the supervision and control of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-695 through 16-697.02
§ 54.016 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Public Works Director shall have the power and authority to enact by-
laws, rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of the by-laws, rules, and regulations subject to
the review and approval of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-697.01
CITY LIBRARY
§ 54.025 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city. The Library Director, under the
direction of the City Manager, shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the library.
(Prior Code, § 3-701) (Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 54.026 BOOK DISPOSAL; RECORDS.
   The City Manager may authorize the Library Director to sell, exchange, or
dispose of any surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the
library. Records shall be kept of any surplus, damages, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 54.027 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council, with the advice of the Library Director and Library
Advisory Board, shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of the
city library for the preservation and efficient management thereof, including
reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's actual cost, for non-basic
services, such as photocopying equipment; telephones, facsimile equipment, and
other telecommunication equipment; media equipment; personal computers; and
video cassette recording and playing equipment. The City Council shall fix and
impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for injury to the library
grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure to return a book. All
fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in civil action in the event
of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 54.028 ISSUANCE OF BOOKS.
   The Library Director shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all
books issued and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned.
None of the books shall be detained more than one month without being renewed.
No book may be renewed more than two consecutive times by any person without
the special permission of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the city
library.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 54.029 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS; BOOK REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the
library shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the
book in addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the library may
assess.
(Prior Code, § 3-705)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations
set by the City Council to take a book from the library, without the consent of
the Library Director or an authorized employee of the library. Any person
removing a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-706)
(Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 54.030 PERMISSIBLE FEES AND COSTS.
   Residents of the city may borrow materials from the library free of charge,
except that reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's actual cost, may be
charged for non-basic services such as photocopying equipment; telephones,
facsimile equipment, and other telecommunication equipment; media equipment;
personal computers; and video cassette recording and playing equipment.
Nonresidents shall be charged an annual fee for the privilege of borrowing
materials from the library as may be set by resolution of the City Council from
time to time, and may be charged reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's
actual cost, for non-basic services. The Library Director may exclude from the
use of the library and reading rooms any person who shall willfully violate or
refuse to comply with the rules and regulations established for the government
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-707) (Ord. 91-1989, passed 4-1-1991; Ord. 91-2019, passed 12-
2-1991; Ord. 2004-2717, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 54.031 DUTY TO TURN OVER MONIES COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Library Director to the City Treasurer along with a report of the sources of
the revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-708)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 51-209
CITY AUDITORIUM
§ 54.045 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and manages the City Auditorium through the City Manager and
City Clerk. The City Manager shall have the power to hire and supervise
employees as he or she may deem necessary and shall make such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Auditorium as may be proper for its
efficient management. All actions by the City Manager and City Clerk shall be
under the supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-901) (Ord. 201-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-239, 16-246, 19-1302
§ 54.046 RENTAL OF AUDITORIUM AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Auditorium shall be available for rental use to individuals,
groups, organizations, and businesses under the terms and conditions set forth
in this subchapter. The City Auditorium shall further be available for rental
use to the federal and state governments and any subdivisions thereof and to
religious. charitable, scientific, literary, educational, and service
organizations and any other entity that would qualify under § 501(c) Internal
Revenue Code and not organized for profit or for the benefit of private
shareholders.
   (B)   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining and managing the Auditorium, set by ordinance, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use thereof. The rental charges shall be on
file at the office of the City Clerk and are set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 1765, passed 12-4-1984;
Ord. 91-2018, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 54.047 RENTAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   All rental agreements for the City Auditorium shall be in writing and
on the form furnished by the city. No such rental agreement shall be effective
until executed and until the fees required herein as advance payments have been
paid. By entering into the agreement, the lessee shall hereby waive all claims
against the city, which may arise out of the use of the Auditorium, and further
agrees to indemnify the city for any damages to the premises, equipment, or
furnishings of the City Auditorium incurred during the time of the agreement,
and further, to save and hold harmless the city against claims of any and all
persons arising out the use of the premises by the lessee.
(Prior Code, § 3-903) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-
2010)
§ 54.048 PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND DEPOSIT.
   All rental fees and damage deposits shall be due and payable upon signing
the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-904) (Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 54.049 SEATING CAPACITY.
   No lessee of the Auditorium shall be able to sell tickets, or permit persons
to be present in the Auditorium in excess of the seating capacity of the same.
The Fire Chief shall have authority to determine when the seating capacity of
the Auditorium has been reached or exceeded by any lessee. If the Fire Chief
makes a determination, the lessee shall then stop selling tickets or refuse
admission to any further persons in the Auditorium. In no event shall the
regulations of the State Fire Marshal concerning the number of persons that can
be safely accommodated be violated.
(Prior Code, § 3-905) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-
1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-233, 16-239, 19-1302
§ 54.050 REHEARSALS AND SET UP.
   The City Manager and the City Clerk shall have the authority to allow
rehearsals by any organization renting the Auditorium. The hours that an
organization may use the Auditorium for a rehearsal may be specified in
writing. One rehearsal shall be included in the rental fee for the Auditorium.
There shall be a charge for additional rehearsals as set by resolution and set
out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-906) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 91-2018, passed 12-2-
1991; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 54.051 FIRE SAFETY.
   Combustible materials shall not be used for decorative purposes, posters, or
any other things attached to any part of the building at any time by any
lessee, except under the supervision of the City Manager or Fire Chief. No
vehicle of any kind shall be allowed in the Auditorium unless all fuel has been
drained from the vehicle and the battery has been disconnected prior to
entrance into the Auditorium. No fuel of any kind may be brought into this
Auditorium for any activity, except under the direct supervision of the Fire
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-907) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-
1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed 11-19-2001; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 54.052 USE OF TOBACCO AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the Auditorium. The use or possession of
alcoholic beverages shall be allowed in the premises of the City Auditorium
upon approval of a special designated liquor license by the City Council or its
agent as designated by resolution. The special designated liquor license holder
shall have insurance coverage on the event or a liquor liability on their
policy and add the city as an additional insured. Certificate of insurance
shall be provided to the city prior to the event. The special designated liquor
license holder shall insure that all liquor laws of the State of Nebraska are
enforced.
(Prior Code, § 3-908) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-
2010; Ord. 2023-3075, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.053 SURRENDER OF RESERVATION.
   The lessee may make written surrender of any reservation made hereunder by
notifying the city at least 12 days in advance of the date reserved. The
advance deposit shall be returned to the lessee if, in the opinion of the City
Manager or City Clerk, no detriment will result to the city by reason of such
surrender.
(Prior Code, § 3-909) (Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-239, 16-246, 19-1302
§ 54.054 REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT.
   The city reserves the right to remove all equipment and effects of any
lessee immediately after the expiration of the lease, and the removal shall be
at the expense of the lessee. No city equipment or property in the Auditorium
shall be removed therefrom nor shall any property be loaned to anyone except
under the direct supervision and authority of the City Manager or City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-910) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-
2010)
§ 54.055 OUTSIDE USE OF WATER OR ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS.
   Any organization renting the Auditorium shall first have the approval of the
City Manager or the City Clerk before any water or electrical appliances or
connections are used on the outside of the Auditorium.
(Prior Code, § 3-912) (Ord. 1679, passed 4-4-1983; Ord. 2010-2836, passed 5-3-
2010)
PUBLIC PARKS
§ 54.065 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKS. Includes, but is not limited to, the following public parks
and trails of the city:
   (A)   Felling Field Park;
   (B)   Elk City Park;
   (C)   Barnett Park;
   (D)   McCook Jaycee Ball Park Complex;
   (E)   Russell Park;
   (F)   Kelley Park;
   (G)   Norris Park;
   (H)   Karrer Park;
   (I)   “A” Street Park; and
   (J)   Walking Trail extending from Kelley Park to Karrer Park.
(Prior Code, § 6-701) (Ord. 1763, passed 10-1-1984; Ord. 2016-2927, passed 5-2-
2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-695, 16-696
§ 54.066 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The public parks of the city shall be open daily to the public during the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. of any one day. It shall be unlawful for any
person or persons (other than city personnel conducting city business therein)
to occupy or be present in the public parks of the city during any hours in
which the public parks are not open to the public, provided, however, that the
City Manager may extend, by permit, the hours for the use of public park
facilities to groups, associations or organizations desiring to use the public
parks facilities for a particular purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-702) (Ord. 1763, passed 10-1-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-696
CEMETERIES: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.080 DESIGNATION OF PLATS.
   The Public Works Director shall have the authority to designate the area or
areas within the cemetery in which grave spaces or lots shall be currently
sold. When all lots within the area or areas have been sold, the Public Works
Director shall proceed to designate additional areas. The Public Works Director
shall prepare a plat of the cemeteries showing the boundaries of the area or
areas within which lots are currently being sold, and also showing the
individual lots therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. 2001-2589, passed 12-3-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.081 BURIAL PERMITS.
   The City Clerk shall maintain blank burial permits and when applications for
burial are made shall issue a permit for each interment applied for. Duplicates
of all permits issued shall be kept in the Clerk's office.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 2001-2590, passed 12-3-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.082 LOT CONVEYANCE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The city shall convey lots in any city cemetery by the issuance of a
certificate by the City Clerk, signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
City Clerk under the seal of the city, specifying that the person to whom the
certificate is issued is the owner of the lot or part of the lot described
therein by number as shown on the map or plat of the respective cemetery for
the sole purpose of interment.
   (B)   The certificate described above shall vest in the person to whom it is
issued, his or her heirs and assigns, a right in fee simple to the lot for the
sole purpose of interment under the provisions of this chapter and other
regulations of the City Council.
   (C)   The certificate shall not be issued until the amount for the specified
lot or part of lot has been fully paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-242 through 16-245
§ 54.083 PERMANENT PARK SPACE.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, designate and set aside lots and spaces
as permanent park space in any city cemetery. The City Council may, if they
find it desirable to do so, sell any of the cemetery lots or parts thereof
previously designated and set aside as permanent park space at a price to be
fixed by the City Council for burial purposes only, and the lots or spaces so
sold shall remain in the list of lots set aside as permanent park space.
(Prior Code, § 3-1005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.084 LOT AND COLUMBARIUM NICHE PRICE; NO PRICE LOTS.
   (A)   The City Council may by ordinance set the prices to be charged for
lots and columbarium niches within all city cemeteries. The amounts shall be on
file in the office of the City Clerk and are set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1006)
   (B)   The City Council may designate certain lots as no price lots, and
shall notify the City Clerk of the designation. The City Clerk shall issue
burial permits in lots designated as no price lots upon evidence being
furnished to him or her that the permits should be issued without cost.
(Prior Code, § 3-1007)
(Ord. 2001-2591, passed 12-3-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.085 REMOVAL OF REMAINS FOR UNPAID LOTS.
   Where an interment is made in any cemetery on a lot or part of a lot, which
is not fully paid for, the City Council shall have the right at any time, after
the period agreed on for the time of payment, to remove the remains to a
smaller lot equal in amount paid upon the original selection or to a single
grave space.
(Prior Code, § 3-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.086 GRAVEDIGGER.
   No one except cemetery employees under the supervision of the Public Works
Director shall be allowed to dig or uncover any graves in the city cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 3-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.087 PRICE FOR OPENING OF GRAVE.
   The City Council may by ordinance set the prices to be charged for the
opening of graves within all city cemeteries. The amounts shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and are set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1010)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.088 PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERPETUAL CARE. The care and maintenance of cemetery lots and columbarium
in perpetuity. This care and maintenance shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Seeding of turf areas, and the regular cutting, trimming, and
watering thereof;
         (b)   Pruning of shrubs and trimming of edgings and replacement of
same;
         (c)   Tree surgery;
         (d)   Planting and maintenance of grave and lot covers;
         (e)   Removing litter and debris from lots;
         (f)   Care of ground covers other than turf;
         (g)   Maintenance of other appurtenances on lots as is not herein
specifically mentioned;
         (h)   Care and maintenance of the columbarium and its accompanying
appurtenances; and
         (i)   Capital improvements of the cemeteries.
   (B)   The City Council may by ordinance set the fee to be charged for
perpetual care within all city cemeteries. The amounts shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk and are set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1012)
   (C)   All sums paid, either directly or indirectly, for perpetual care,
shall be set aside in a Perpetual Care Fund which shall be invested by the City
Treasurer. The principal of this Fund may be used for capital improvements of
the cemeteries upon the approval of the City Council. The interest thereof may
be transferred to the General Fund to be expended in the care and upkeep of the
cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 3-1013) (Ord. 2001-2593, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 2002-2629,
passed 7-1-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.089 FUNERAL DIRECTION.
   All funerals within the cemeteries shall be under the direction of the
Public Works Director or one of his or her assistants. Workers engaged in the
vicinity of a burial shall suspend their work during services at a grave. The
Public Works Director shall reserve the right to remove funeral designs and
floral pieces as soon as they become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-1016)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.090 INTERMENT; PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   Only one interment in any one grave shall be permitted except that
cremated remains may be placed above another grave. All interments shall
utilize vaults of a nature as to prevent cave-in, or sinking, of the grave
site. The Public Works Director shall not be held responsible for errors in
location of graves on lots arising from improper instructions from lot owners.
Orders from undertakers shall be deemed to be orders from lot owners. Under no
circumstances shall the city assume any responsibility for errors in opening
graves when instructions of the lot owner are received over the telephone.
(Prior Code, § 3-1017)
   (B)   No interment shall take place until a burial permit has been obtained
from the City Clerk, and all laws, ordinances, and rules and regulations
relative to burials have been complied with. No grave shall be opened unless
the grave space has been paid for or unless the undertaker assumes the
responsibility for paying for the grave space. Undertakers shall be responsible
for funeral arrangements and burial expenses if not paid by the owner or his or
her agent. If the deceased to be interred is not the owner or is not a member
of the lot owner's immediate family, written consent of the owner or authorized
agent must be filed with the Public Works Director before interment will be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 3-1018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.091 DISINTERMENT.
   Disinterments and removal of a body shall not be made without permission of
the Public Works Director, the lot owner, and the next of kin of the deceased.
Graves shall not be opened for inspection except for official investigation.
All disinterments shall be made at a time selected by the Public Works
Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-1019)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.092 CHILDREN IN CEMETERY.
   No person under 16 years of age shall enter a cemetery unless attended by an
adult responsible for his or her conduct or until permission to enter has been
obtained from the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-1021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.093 LIMITATION OF CITY FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall not be financially responsible for any damage to cemetery
lots or structures or projections thereon or for flowers or articles removed
from any lot or grave.
(Prior Code, § 3-1022)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.094 CEMETERY TRAFFIC REGULATION.
   (A)   All traffic rules of the city that are applicable to operations of
vehicles shall be strictly observed in the cemeteries. A person driving in a
cemetery shall be responsible for any damage done by the vehicle, or animal
drawing the vehicle in a driver's charge.
   (B)   In addition, no person shall:
      (1)   Drive a vehicle in excess of ten miles per hour on a cemetery road;
      (2)   Drive off an established road unless permission to do so is given
by the Cemetery Sexton;
      (3)   Make a U-turn on a cemetery road; or
      (4)   Use a cemetery road as a public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 3-1023)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.095 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All plantings and other improvements to lots shall be done under the
direction and with the approval of the Public Works Director. No trees or
shrubs shall be planted, removed, or pruned except under the direction and with
the consent of the Public Works Director. The planting of rose bushes or any
spreading shrub is prohibited. No trees shall be planted without the approval
of the City Council.
   (B)   Copings, fences, curbs, and hedges on or around cemetery lots are
prohibited. Those structures or markers established on any lot previous to the
effective date of this section which have, in the judgment of the City Council,
become unsightly by reason of neglect or age shall be removed.
   (C)   Receptacles for cut flowers will be permitted on cemetery lots if
installed flush with the lawn. Winter decorations may be maintained on graves
until March 1 of each year. If the decorations are not removed by March 1, they
will be considered abandoned and will be removed by the Public Works Director.
Aboveground flower receptacles will be permitted on lots and graves during
Memorial Day observance, but shall be removed by the Public Works Director, or
by the lot owner, by the following June 9.
   (D)   Except in the First Addition to Memorial Park, chairs, settees,
benches, and urns shall be permitted, but only if properly installed and
maintained. Failure to properly install or maintain the structures shall be
cause for their removal.
   (F)   No elevated mounds shall be built over graves and no lot shall be
filled above the level established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1024) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.096 FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   No firearms shall be permitted within any of the cemeteries except for
military service.
(Prior Code, § 3-1025) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.097 ENTRANCE ONLY THROUGH ESTABLISHED GATE.
   No person shall enter a cemetery except through an established gate.
(Prior Code, § 3-1026) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.098 DISTURBANCE OF HORTICULTURE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or domestic in any
city cemetery, or disturb any trees, shrubs, plants, or monuments therein
without permission from the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-1028) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.099 DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any dog to enter or remain in any cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 3-1031) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.100 NO TRESPASSING ALLOWED.
   No person shall in any manner trespass upon any cemetery lot and damage
trees or plants thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-1033) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.101 INJURY OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure any property, either public or private, in any city
cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 3-1034) Penalty, see § 97.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
CEMETERIES: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS
§ 54.115 LOCATION; PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Monuments shall not be installed on grave spaces but shall be located
on solid earth and aligned and located as directed by the Public Works
Director, or his or her designee. Approval of the location of all monuments
must be obtained from the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, before
a monument is set. No monument shall be placed upon a lot unless it is first
approved by the Public Works Director, or his or her designee, and the lot has
been paid for in full. Markers shall be placed at the head of the grave and
shall be located five inches from a lot line. Foundations for markers and
monuments shall be flush with the surface of the ground and shall extend beyond
the base of the monument a distance of five inches on each side and end, and
shall not exceed 24 inches from front to back.
(Prior Code, § 3-1035)
   (B)   No person shall erect any marker or monument in any city cemetery
without first obtaining a monument permit from the City Clerk. The fee for the
permit shall be set by ordinance of the City Council and is set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1036)
(Ord. 2006-2771, passed 7-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.116 MONUMENT FIRM BOND REQUIRED.
   All monument firms before erecting any monuments in any of the city
cemeteries shall post a surety bond in the amount of $1,000 to cover any
defects or faulty workmanship. Bonds are to be filed with the City Clerk and
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1037)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.117 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Those persons engaged in the placing of monuments and markers shall provide
planking adequate to protect turf and shall remove materials, equipment and
rubbish immediately upon completion of the work. The site shall be left in a
clean orderly condition. Ropes or cables shall be attached to trees or other
objects only on the approval of the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-1039)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.118 PERMITTED MATERIALS.
   No material except granite, a good grade of white marble, cut stone from
recognized monument quarries, or standard bronze shall be used for monuments or
markers. Bronze may be used for markers extending above the grade only if
attached to a granite or concrete base. No materials except granite, marble, or
standard bronze shall be used for flush markers.
(Prior Code, § 3-1041)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.119 CORNER POSTS.
   Corner posts of any lot or plot of city cemeteries shall be placed flush
with the grade thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-1043)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.120 REMOVAL.
   No person shall remove or attempt to remove any gravestone, monument, or
marker from any lot in any cemetery without the knowledge and permission of the
Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 3-1042)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
CEMETERIES: SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 54.130 RIVERVIEW CEMETERY LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   The tract of ground situated on the northwest quarter of section 30,
township three, range 29, platted as a cemetery by H. C. Rider, and acquired by
the city from the Riverview Cemetery Association in 1937, together with any
ground adjoining the tract, that may hereafter be acquired by the city for
cemetery purposes, shall be known and designated as Riverview Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 3-1048)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-241
§ 54.131 MEMORIAL PARK LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   The tract of land formerly known as Longview Cemetery and since 1927 known
as McCook Memorial Park, together with any ground adjoining the tract that may
be acquired by the city for cemetery purposes, except that tract known as First
Addition to Memorial Park, shall be known and designated as McCook Memorial
Park.
(Prior Code, § 3-1049)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-241
§ 54.132 MEMORIAL PARK ALLEY USAGE.
   Where one person has become the owner of two lots adjoining each other in
the same block of Memorial Park Cemetery, he or she shall be permitted to use
the four-foot alley between the lots for interments, thereby making one compact
tract out of the two lots.
(Prior Code, § 3-1050)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.133 MEMORIAL PARK PERMANENT PARK SPACE DESIGNATION.
   The following described lots in Memorial Park Cemetery are hereby set aside
as permanent park space:
   (A)   Block 1. Lot 20, east half of lot 25, lots 92, 93, 114, 115, 133, 161,
162, and 167;
   (B)   Block 2. Lots 1, 3, 4, 5, 12, 23, 52, 76,103, 105, north half of lot
120, lots 128, 140, 155, 161 and 162;
   (C)   Block 3. Lots 6, 11, 12, 13, 23, 24, 28, 33, 34, 37, 50, 51, 60, 63,
64, 65, 68, 79, 101, 104,107, 109, 122, 156, 158, 159 and 166;
   (D)   Block 4. Lots 1, 6, 7, 35, 53, 76, 160 and 161;
   (E)   Block 5. Lots 1, 4, 5, 13, 24 and 36;
   (F)   Block 6. Lots 1, 4, 5, 7, 13 and 24;
   (G)   Block 7. Lots 18, 28, 35 and 36;
   (H)   Block 8. Lots 1, 13, 24, 32, 33 and 36;
   (I)   Block 9. Lots 182, 183, 184, 185, the west one-half lot 186, 187, 188,
189, 190, 191, 192, 193 and 194: and
   (J)   Block 10. Lots 182, 183, 184, 185, 186, the east one-half lot 187,
188, 189, 190, 191, 192, 193 and 194.
(Prior Code, § 3-1051)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.134 MEMORIAL PARK PARK SPACE LOTS NOT FOR SALE.
   The lots specified in § 97.58 are dedicated to the public use for the
beautifying of the cemetery and are not intended to be sold; however, such lots
are subject to the provisions of § 97.58.
(Prior Code, § 3-1052)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
§ 54.135 LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF FIRST ADDITION TO MEMORIAL PARK; PLAT
RECORDING AND FILING.
   (A)   The plat of blocks nine, ten, eleven, and twelve of Memorial Park
Cemetery, prepared by the Board of Cemetery Trustees of the city cemeteries,
located directly north of blocks one and two of the Memorial Park Cemetery and
containing approximately five acres in the southwest quarter of section 19 of
township three, north, range 29 west of the sixth principal meridian, in Red
Willow County, such tract being approximately one-half of the tract conveyed to
the city by Thomas J. Wilkins, is approved by the City Council, and that tract
of land specified by the plat shall be designated as the First Addition to
Memorial Park Cemetery. One copy of the plat shall be recorded in the office of
the Register of Deeds of the County, one copy shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be furnished to the Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   The plat of blocks 13, 14, 15, and 16 of Memorial Park Cemetery,
prepared by the Board of Cemetery Trustees of the city cemeteries, located
directly north of blocks nine, ten, 11, and 12 of the Memorial Park Cemetery
and containing approximately five acres in the southwest quarter of section 19
of township three, north, range 29 west of the sixth principal meridian, in Red
Willow County, the tract being approximately one-half of the tract conveyed to
the city by Thomas J. Wolkins, as approved by the City Council, and that tract
of land specified by the plat shall be designated as the First Addition to
Memorial Park Cemetery. One copy of the plat shall be recorded in the office of
the Register of Deeds of the County, one copy shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be furnished to the Cemetery Sexton.
(Prior Code, § 3-1053) (Ord. 2005-2746, passed 9-6-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-241
§ 54.136 FIRST ADDITION TO MEMORIAL PARK PLANTINGS, STRUCTURES AND FLOWER
RECEPTACLES.
   No plantings shall be made by anyone other than cemetery employees in the
First Addition to Memorial Park Cemetery. No structure that would extend above
the ground level, except as provided by § 97.62 shall be permitted in the First
Addition to Memorial Park Cemetery, except on veterans' graves, where only
United States Government markers are permitted. Cut flower receptacles of metal
or other durable material will be permitted only if installed flush with the
ground level. No wooden boxes or aboveground flower receptacles of any kind
shall be permitted except during Memorial Day observance.
(Prior Code, § 3-1054) (Ord. 2005-2746, passed 9-6-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.137 MARKERS AND MONUMENTS: FIRST ADDITION TO MEMORIAL PARK.
   The only marker or monument permitted in blocks nine, 12, and 13 of the
First Addition to Memorial Park Cemetery described in § 97.61 shall be a
standard marker consisting of a marble or granite stone, or any weather
resisting metal tablet upon which the inscription as is desired and appropriate
may be placed. No marker shall be more than six inches above ground level and
all markers shall have a foundation projecting at least five inches out from
each side of the marker. The foundation shall be set at least one foot into the
ground. Markers or monuments extending aboveground shall be permitted in blocks
ten, 11, and 14 of the First Addition to Memorial Park Cemetery. No marker or
monument shall extend more than four feet aboveground in block 15 of the First
Addition to Memorial Park Cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 3-1055) (Ord. 2005-2746, passed 9-6-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-244, 16-245
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of §§
54.001 through
54.054 any section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Unless otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person
stands convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to
exceed three months, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, §§ 1-1201, 2-301, 3-1301)
   (C)   Whenever any section of §§
54.001 through
54.054 shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be penalized
by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1301)
   (D)    Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in §§
54.001 through
54.054, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same,
in the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that
a nuisance exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, 3-1302)
   (E)   Any person violating the provision of §§
54.065 and
54.066 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor
more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-703) (Ord. 1763, passed 10-1-1984)
   (F)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
54.080 through
54.135, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1056)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-245
CHAPTER 55: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Operation and funding
   
55.03   State regulation
   
55.04   City Manager authority
   
55.05   Garbage containers
   
55.06   Unlawful accumulation
   
55.07   Disposal on streets or other's property prohibited
   
55.08   Compliance with chapter
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste, including
vegetable and animal offal and including tin cans. The term shall not include
industrial wastes and by-products.
   TRASH. All non-putrescible wastes, provided that the term shall not include
earth and wastes from building operations nor large trees or tree branches.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 55.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the solid waste collection system and the
transfer station. The Public Works Director, under the direction of the City
Manager, shall have the direct management and control of the Solid Waste
Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her position.
The Director shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Solid Waste Department. The governing
body shall provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the solid
waste collection system and the transfer station and shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by resolution and file the same in the office of
the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. The rates are set
out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 55.03 STATE REGULATION.
   The city shall apply for a license to operate the transfer station.
Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Quality on forms
provided by the Department. It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director
to comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of
Environmental Control for the use and operation of the transfer station.
§ 55.04 CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY.
   The City Manager is hereby given the authority to make rules and regulations
governing the time of collection of garbage and trash, the exact location of
containers therefor, and such other rules and regulations governing the
accumulation and disposal of garbage and trash as he or she may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 55.05 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of each premise in the city to
dispose of garbage and trash by placing the same in a suitable container for
collection. The container shall meet health requirements and shall conform to
all other requirements which the City Manager may require for the efficient
pickup of garbage and trash.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 55.06 UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
house, building, or premises in the city any decayed vegetable or animal
substances, garbage, offal, or refuse or any substance that may be injurious to
the public health or offensive to the residents of property in the nearby
vicinity unless kept in refuse containers provided by the city in the manner
provided hereinabove. Bulk refuse securely tied or otherwise prepared in a
manner to avoid litter may be deposited on the rear portion of his or her
property adjacent to an alley for a period not longer than 30 days so long as
the bulk refuse does not create a nuisance. Nothing herein shall be construed
as to allow any person to deposit any garbage, refuse, or bulk refuse or any
other such material on any street, alley, or other public property or on the
private property of another without the specific permission of the city or the
owner respectively.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) Penalty, §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 55.07 DISPOSAL ON STREETS OR OTHER'S PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, trash, or other
such material on any street, alley, except the transfer station, on the private
property of another, or other public property.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 55.08 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   No garbage or trash shall be disposed of in any manner except as described
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
CHAPTER 56: SENIOR SERVICES
Section
   
56.01   Senior center and public transport operation
   
56.02   Cost of use
§ 56.01 SENIOR CENTER AND PUBLIC TRANSPORT OPERATION.
   The city owns and manages the Senior Center, and the Public Transit System.
The Senior Services Director, under the direction of the City Manager, shall
manage both operations, has the authority to hire other employees as the City
Council may deem necessary and may set other rules and regulations for the
Senior Center as may be proper for its efficient operation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1201) (Ord. 91-2020, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 56.02 COST OF USE.
   The Senior Center shall be available for rental use to individuals, groups,
organizations, and businesses under the terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter. The Senior Center shall further be available for rental use to the
federal and state governments and any subdivisions thereof and to religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, educational and service organizations and any
other entity that would qualify under § 501(c) Internal Revenue Code and not
organized for profit or for the benefit of private shareholders. The City
Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in maintaining
and managing the Senior Center, set by resolution, a reasonable rental charge
for the use thereof. The rental charges shall be on file at the office of the
City Clerk and are set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-1202) (Ord 91- 2020, passed 12-2-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
75.   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Signs and signals
Enforcement and Citations
   
70.15   Emergency regulation authority
   
70.16   Police enforcement
   
70.17   Form and record of traffic citation
   
70.18   Disposition of traffic citations
   
70.19   Illegal cancellation of citation
   
70.20   Destruction of summons
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60, as
now existing or hereafter amended, unless a different definition is provided
specifically within a section, then it shall govern to the extent allowed by
state law. Words and phrases not defined in the designated statute shall have
their common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the city's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or
prohibiting, traffic thereon. The resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where the sign, signal, standard, or
mechanical device shall be placed, and the hours when the regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with the regulation or prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,119 - 60,6,121) (Prior Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT AND CITATIONS
§ 70.15 EMERGENCY REGULATION AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-435
§ 70.16 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (Prior Code, § 5-402)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with,
any lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-403)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 FORM AND RECORD OF TRAFFIC CITATION.
   The Chief of Police shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
issuance of the books, and shall maintain a record of every book, and each
citation number therein issued to the city police. The Chief of Police shall
require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not issued to an alleged
violator.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
§ 70.18 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   The city police, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter, shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the Prosecuting Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, the
citation may be disposed of only by trial in court, or other official action,
including a forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with, or
payment of a fine to, the court by the person to whom the traffic citation has
been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the city police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422, 29-424
§ 70.19 ILLEGAL CANCELLATION OF CITATION.
   Any person who cancels, or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DESTRUCTION OF SUMMONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the city police, and fail to appear in court as
directed by the tag.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise
specified in the particular section for which the person stands convicted of
violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount not less than
$10 nor to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to
exceed three months, in the discretion of the court, provided whenever any
section of this title shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section
shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-1101)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this title, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Speed Limits
   
71.01   General rule
   
71.02   School zones
Bicycles and Other Recreational Vehicles
   
71.15   Lost or abandoned bicycles
   
71.16   Skateboards
Motor Vehicles
   
71.30    Engine brakes; definitions, prohibited, affirmative defense and
penalty
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.01 GENERAL RULE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the residential district, and 20
mph within the business district, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions. Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance,
appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186, 60-6,190) (Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SCHOOL ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located as set forth in
Chapter 73 of this code of ordinances and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to or leaving school between
the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed
in excess of 20 mph past the premises, and the driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at, or near, the school premises, and it shall be unlawful for
the driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where stop signs are located
at, or near, the school premise.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) (Prior Code, § 5-307) (Ord. 1877, passed 9-5-1989) Penalty,
see §
71.99
BICYCLES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 71.15 LOST OR ABANDONED BICYCLES.
   The Chief of Police will make every effort to identify bicycles found to be
lost or abandoned and return them to the rightful owner. In those cases where
the owner cannot be identified the bicycle shall be held for a period of 90
days and will then be disposed of at public auction.
(Prior Code, § 5-606)
§ 71.16 SKATEBOARDS.
   No person shall skate or use or ride upon any skateboard or similar device
upon or over the public sidewalks or streets on Norris Avenue, First Street
East or First Street West between "A" Street and "E" Street in the city.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-331)
MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 71.30 ENGINE BRAKES; DEFINITIONS, PROHIBITED, AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE AND
PENALTY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term ENGINE BRAKE is
hereby defined as a specific braking mechanism which utilizes the release of
compressed air as part of an engine retarder or engine brake on any motor
vehicle as a means of slowing or stopping said vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibition of engine brakes. It shall be unlawful for anyone to
operate a motor vehicle and use engine retarders or brakes as a means of
slowing or stopping said vehicle within the city limits.
   (C)   Affirmative defense. The use of an engine retarder or brake in an
emergency situation to avoid an imminent accident which would otherwise result
in damage or injury to person(s) or property, or the fact that the motor
vehicle is equipped with a proper muffler system which eliminates noise emitted
or caused by the use of an engine retarder or brake system shall constitute
affirmative defenses to the application of the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in accordance with the provisions of §
71.99. Each day any such violation shall occur or continue shall constitute and
be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-3018, 9-7-2021)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   General regulations
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
   
72.03   Parking and no parking areas
   
72.04   Restricted areas
   
72.05   Snow emergency
   
72.06   Time limit
   
72.07   Prima facie proof of responsibility
   
72.08   Emergency vehicles
   
72.09   Inoperative or unlicensed vehicles
Handicapped Parking
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   On-street parking
   
72.17   Off-street parking
   
72.18   Permit issuance
   
72.19   Transport permit
   
72.20   Permit contents
   
72.21   Permit period; renewal fee
   
72.22   Permit nontransferable
   
72.23   Citation issuance
   
72.24   Unauthorized vehicle removal
   
72.25   Handicapped parking infraction
Loading and Stopping
   
72.35   Loading of vehicles
   
72.36   Contractor and repairperson permits
   
72.37   Trucks and other specified vehicles
Enforcement
   
72.50   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.51   Parking violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within the stalls.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167) (Prior Code, § 5-1002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (Prior Code, § 5-1001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING AND NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or
portion thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to
the curb or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167) (Prior Code, § 5-1003)
   (B)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-1004)
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 72.04 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1005)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1006)
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any
fire hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 5-1007)
   (D)   The governing body may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or
stopping except for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles
at the curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house,
school building, theater, or other building, and the curbs adjacent to the
entrance of the school house, school building, theater, or other building shall
be painted yellow to indicate the prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1008)
   (E)   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where any
curb lines are painted red or yellow to indicate a prohibition against parking.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 5-1009)
   (F)   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where the stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1010)
   (G)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the governing
body. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167) (Prior Code, § 5-1011)
   (H)   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race
the motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of this city,
excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or
employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets,
or alleys in the vicinity of a garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1012)
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle over or upon any sidewalk or
sidewalk space within the city. The tires, wheels, or any other portion of the
vehicle supporting any portion of its weight, standing, resting, or placed upon
or over any sidewalk, curb, or sidewalk space shall be deemed a violation of
this section. The definition contained herein shall be cumulative with other
definitions of parking in this code and shall not be construed to be limiting
in character.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1024)
(Ord. 92-2085, passed 7-6-1992; Ord. 95-2340, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever it is determined by the City Manager, upon the best
information available to him or her that a snow storm in which the anticipated
snow fall is greater than two inches is imminent, he or she may call a general
snow emergency within the city, during which certain parking provisions as are
hereinafter provided shall be strictly observed and complied with. Upon
termination of the period for compliance with the parking regulations, as
hereinafter provided or whenever it is deemed advisable by the City Manager, he
or she may terminate the snow emergency and rescind the concomitant parking
regulations. Upon the calling of a snow emergency by the City Manager, the City
Manager shall endeavor to notify the public according to the best and most
immediate means available to him or her. He or she shall likewise notify the
public at the termination of the snow emergency.
   (B)   In the event that a snow emergency is called, parking on either side
of the arterial and collector streets designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule II of this code of ordinances, shall be prohibited for a
period of 24 hours from and after the time when the snow emergency is called.
   (C)   The leaving of any vehicle remaining on the described public streets
during the period of 24 hours from and after the designation of a snow
emergency shall constitute a misdemeanor. The Police Department is hereby
authorized to have any vehicle towed by the city or a representative authorized
by the Police Department. The Police Department is further authorized to issue
citations for violation of this section and the minimum fine for violation is
hereby set at $25 each violation. The owner or party in possession of the
vehicle may have the vehicle returned to him or her upon payment of the towing
charges and recover the vehicle at the holding area designated by the city.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1023) (Ord. 1687, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 1730,
passed 5-7-1984; Ord. 1831, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1882, passed 11-20-1989)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be parked on the streets of
the city, except where designated otherwise, for a period longer than 72 hours
without the vehicle being moved.
(Prior Code, § 5-1014)
   (B)   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a
time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in the resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1018)
(Ord. 1633, passed 1-4-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 PRIMA FACIE PROOF OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The fact that a vehicle, which is parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, is registered in the name of a person shall be
prima facie proof that that person was in control of the automobile at the time
of the parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1029)
§ 72.08 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this chapter, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114) (Prior Code, § 5-1028)
§ 72.09 INOPERATIVE OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle which is not in running condition or which is not fully
equipped and licensed for lawful operation on the streets of the city or which
is not supplied with fuel and lubrication for immediate operation shall be
parked or left standing in any highway, street, or alley of the city. In case
of emergency, a motor vehicle not in such condition, not so equipped or not so
supplied may be parked for such time not to exceed one hour as may be required
for its removal.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-323
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this chapter
regulating the use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in that manner for no
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1741.01) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.02) (Ord. 98-2478, passed
1-18-1999)
§ 72.16 ON-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
the permit.
      (2)   All permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the motor
vehicle's rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to the sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-1013) (Ord. 1758, passed 10-1-1984;
Ord. 1906, passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 98-2476, passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.17 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in the facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose vehicles display the permit
specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display the
permit.
   (B)   The designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.01) (Ord. 98-2477, passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.18 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting the holder to park in those spaces provided for by this chapter
when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in the spaces. For purposes of this section, the handicapped or disabled
person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be considered the
holder of the permit.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner certifying
that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person. In the case of a
temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying physician, physician
assistant, or nurse practitioner shall indicate the estimated date of recovery
or that the temporary handicap or disability will continue for a period of six
months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.19, but not both.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738, 18-1738.02) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.03) (Ord. 98-2479, passed
1-18-1999)
§ 72.19 TRANSPORT PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces provided
for by this chapter if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. The parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person and the person
will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in the designated
spaces.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete forms as are provided to the City Clerk by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk that each
motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the
completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (D)   No more than one permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.18, but not both.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.01, 18-1738.02) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.04) (Ord. 98-2480,
passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.20 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   (A)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit's issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility
of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size,
configuration, color, and construction and contain such information as
specified in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United
States Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped
Parking, 23 C.F.R. part 1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section, the
permit shall show the expiration date and such identifying information with
regard to the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person to whom it is issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to the person or for the motor vehicle and
the permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.22. At the expiration of the suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit fee.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. The duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk
or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 18-1739) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.05) (Ord. 98-2481, passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.21 PERMIT PERIOD; RENEWAL FEE.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits authorized under this chapter for
handicapped or disabled parking prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a
period ending on September 30 of the third year following the date of issuance.
All permanently issued permits after August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a
period ending on the last day of the month of the applicant's birthday in the
third year after issuance and shall expire on that day.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this chapter for temporarily handicapped
or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more than six
months after the date of issuance but may be renewed for a one-time period not
to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an
additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 18-1740) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.06) (Ord. 98-2482, passed 1-18-1999;
Ord. 2006-2762, passed 3-24-2006)
§ 72.22 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall not be transferable and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this chapter. No person
shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit. Any violation of this section shall
be cause for suspension of the permit for a period of six months. In addition,
the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which may be waived
by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking permits
issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to the court. At
the expiration of the six-month period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon
payment of the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1741) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.07) (Ord. 98-2483, passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.23 CITATION ISSUANCE.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the City Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue a
complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint charging
the person with a handicapped parking infraction or the person shall be
released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on
the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is the
lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued
under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-1741.06) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.08) (Ord.
98-2484, passed 1-18-1999)
§ 72.24 UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff's Department, and the city
providing on-street parking or owning, operating, or providing an off-street
parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, of
any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this chapter, if there is posted immediately adjacent to
and visible from the stall or space a sign which clearly and conspicuously
states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of the
persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-street
parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit or when the
handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or permit
is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined
in §
72.15, and shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in §
72.23 and the penalty provided for in this chapter. The display on a motor
vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or
disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state
shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped
parking infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
the violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in
this chapter.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of the facility shall not be required to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-1013.09) (Ord. 98-2485, passed 1-18-1999)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.25 HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION.
   Any person found guilty of a handicapped parking infraction shall be fined
not more than $150 for the first offense, not more than $300 for a second
offense within a one-year period, and not more than $500 for a third or
subsequent offense within a one-year period.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.02)
LOADING AND STOPPING
§ 72.35 LOADING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate, by resolution or motion, freight
loading zones and passenger loading zones at its discretion. The zones shall be
properly marked.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a freight loading
zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading
and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in the zones during the hours
when the provision applicable to the zones are in effect. No person shall stop
or park any vehicle, for any purpose, in any freight loading zone in excess of
20 minutes. The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a freight loading zone for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not interfere with
any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is waiting to
enter or about to enter the zone. In no case shall any passenger vehicle stop
in a freight loading zone for more than five minutes and in no case shall any
passenger vehicle be left in any freight loading zone without a driver in
attendance.
      (3)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in a passenger
loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. No person shall stop or park any vehicle,
for any purpose, in any passenger loading zone in excess of ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-1020)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of the street or in any traffic lane, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1021)
   (C)   No vehicle shall remain backed up to any curb except while it is
actually loading or unloading and in no case longer than the actual loading or
unloading requires.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1022)
(Ord. 1871, passed 1-15-1989)
§ 72.36 CONTRACTOR AND REPAIRPERSON PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be empowered to issue parking permits to
contractors and repairpersons for the parking of their business vehicles in the
course of their business in the city's limited time parking zones for a period
of three weeks.
   (B)   The permits and applications for permits shall appear on forms
approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   Each permit shall be applicable for only one vehicle and for the use
of one parking stall.
   (D)   The dates for which the permit is valid shall be reflected on the
permit and the permit shall be prominently displayed on the rear window of each
vehicle.
   (E)   Contractors and repairpersons shall mean any person employed in either
trade.
   (F)   The City Council is empowered to promulgate rules and regulations as
are necessary for the implementation and operation of the permit system
hereunder by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-1033) (Ord. 1685, passed 3-21-1983; Ord. 2011-2858, passed 6-
6-2011)
§ 72.37 TRUCKS AND OTHER SPECIFIED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or leave standing, on any
street, alley, public right-of-way, or private premises in any area of the city
zoned Residential, any vehicle containing garbage, or dead or rotting animal
matter. Any vehicle parked in violation of this section is declared to be a
nuisance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1025)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing on any
street, alley, public right-of-way, or private premises in any area of the city
zoned Residential, any petroleum or petroleum distillate transport vehicle. Nor
shall any person park or leave standing on any street, alley, public right-of-
way, or private premises in any area of the city zoned Residential, any
anhydrous ammonia transport vehicle or any vehicle used to store or transport
anhydrous ammonia or other farm or industrial chemicals. Any vehicle parked in
violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1026)
   (C)   Except under authority of a valid permit issued as set out herein:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any truck, truck-tractor, or trailer,
except for trucks with a rated carrying capacity of less than one and one-half
tons (3,000 pounds), to be parking or stored, on any street, alley, or public
right-of-way where parking is permitted in any part of the city which is zoned
as Residential-Low Density, Residential-Medium Density, Residential-Medium
Density Mobile Home, or Residential-High Density of the city; and moving vans
may be exempted up to 24 hours for loading and unloading.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle, with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
      TRUCK. Any motor vehicle not designed, used or maintained primarily for
the transportation of persons as a passenger vehicle. The definition of TRUCK
shall include all common carriers, all motor vehicles designed, used, or
maintained primarily for the transportation of property or equipment, and shall
include all vehicles which constitute commercial vehicles under Neb. RS 60-301
to 60-335 inclusive.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and primarily used for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the load so drawn.
   (E)   The fact that a truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, which is legally
parked, is registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie
proof that the person was in control of the truck, truck-tractor, or trailer at
the time of the parking.
   (F)   The City Manager shall be empowered to issue permits for the parking
of trucks, truck-tractors, or trailers in the residential areas of the city as
required by this section.
      (1)   The permits and applications for permits shall appear on forms
approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   The permits shall be for a period not to exceed 72 hours and the
period shall be displayed prominently on the permit.
      (3)   Any alteration of a permit issued hereunder shall constitute a
violation of this section.
      (4)   The permit shall be issued upon a showing by the applicant of a
reasonable necessity for purposes of loading or unloading only to exceed the
limits set by this section. However, no permit shall be issued for a vehicle
when the parking of the vehicle would constitute a nuisance under city
ordinances or state law, nor for any other purpose than loading or unloading.
      (5)   Any misrepresentation or false statements in an application for a
permit shall constitute a violation of this section.
      (6)   The City Council is empowered to promulgate such further rules and
regulations as are necessary for the implementation and operation of the permit
system hereunder by resolution.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-1027) (Ord. 2011-2858, passed 6-6-2011)
Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.50 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
individual may remove or have the vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of the street or alley or from the street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of the
vehicle may be charged with the reasonable cost for the removal and storage,
payable before the vehicle is released. Any towing or storage fee shall become
a security interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee shall be
in addition to any other fees or penalties owed the city for the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,165) (Prior Code, § 5-1034) (Ord. 1759, passed 10-1-1984)
§ 72.51 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations of city parking regulations may be given notice in the form
of an official Police tag attached to the motor vehicle of the violator, which
notice may require the violator to appear forthwith at the Police Department.
If the violator may fail to appear in response to the notice, within a period
of 15 days and pay the penalty in full, a complaint may be filed and a summons
to appear in court shall be issued to the violator for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1031)
   (B)   Any violator of any city parking regulations appearing as required by
division (A) and desiring to plead guilty and waive court appearance shall sign
a guilty plea and waiver of court appearance within 15 days of issuance, and
shall pay to the city the sum set by resolution of the City Council and set out
in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule, as penalty for the violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1032) (Ord. 95-2311, passed 4-3-1995)
(Neb. RS 60-680)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-253
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Speed Zone Speed Limit
Speed Zone                                             Speed Limit
"B" Street from East Sixth Street to the east          35 mph
corporate limit line
"B" Street from East Sixth Street to Federal Avenue    25 mph
"B" Street from Federal Avenue to West Eleventh Street 30 mph
West Highways 6 and 34 from 11th Street West to 400    30 mph
feet west of the junction of Highways 6, 34, and 83
West Highways 6 and 34 from 400 feet west junction
with US-83 and a point 1,000 feet west of Wedgewood    45 mph
Drive
North Highway 83 from 11th Street West to a point
1,200 feet north of the north junction line of         30 mph
Highways 6, 34, and 83
North Highway 83 from 1,200 feet north of the north
junction line of Highways 6, 34, and 83 to 1,000 feet  45 mph
north of West "Q" Street
North Highway 83 from 1,000 feet north of West "Q"     50 mph
Street to the north corporate limit line
Sixth Street East from "B" Street to the south         35 mph
corporate limit line
East "G" Street from Third Street East to Fourth       20 mph School Speed Zone
Street East
East "F" Street from Third Street East to Fourth       20 mph School Speed Zone
Street East
Third Street East from East "F" Street to East "G"     20 mph School Speed Zone
Street
Fourth Street East from East "F" Street to East "G"    20 mph School Speed Zone
Street
West "F" Street from First Street West to Second       20 mph School Speed Zone
Street West
West "G" Street from First Street West to Second       20 mph School Speed Zone
Street West
First Street West from West "F" Street to West "G"     20 mph School Speed Zone
Street
Second Street West from West "F" Street to West "G"    20 mph School Speed Zone
Street
Seventh Street West from West "E" Street to Sunset     20 mph School Speed Zone
Road
Sunset Road from Seventh Street West to Tenth Street   20 mph School Speed Zone
West
West "O" Street from West Circle Drive to Third Street 20 mph School Speed Zone
West
Third Street West from West "O" Street to West "Q"     20 mph School Speed Zone
Street
"H" Street from Eleventh Street east to Airport Road   35 mph
Eleventh Street East from East "C" Street north to the 35 mph
corporate limits
Third Street West from West "T" Street north to the    35 mph
corporate limits
 
(Ord. 2006-2770, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 2009-2825, passed 8-3-2009; Ord. 2012-
2884, passed 9-17-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted areas
   
II.   Snow emergency parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED AREAS.
 
No Parking Zone
Either side of “B” Street of the city
The south side of East “H” Street of the city
Either side of West “J” Street from Norris Avenue to Westridge Parkway
The north side of Auditorium Drive of the city
The west side and on the cul-de-sac of Coppermill Court in the city
The north side of West “H” Street from North Highway 83 extending east
approximately 400 feet to the existing alleyway
 
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Ord. 1888, passed 1-2-1990; Res. 2021-01, passed - -2021)
 
SCHEDULE II. SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING.
No Parking For 24 Hours During Snow Emergency
No Parking For 24 Hours During Snow Emergency
Airport Road from "B" Street North to Airport Terminal
East 15th Street from East "H" Street to East "J" Street
East 14th Street from East "C" Street to East "H" Street
Apollo Street from East 14th Street to East "F" Street
East 11th Street from East "B" Street to north city limits
East 6th Street from East "B" Street to East "H" Street
East 7th Street from East "H" Street to Country Club Drive
Country Club Drive from East 7th Street to East 5th Street
East 5th Street from East "H" Street to Parkview
East 4th Street from East "F" Street to East "G" Street
East 3rd Street from East "B" Street to East "H" Street
East 3rd Street from East "L" Street to East "M" Street
East 2nd Street from East "A" Street to East "B" Street
East 1st Street from East "A" Street to East "M" Street
Norris Avenue from East "A" Street to north city limits
East "F" Street from East 3rd Street to East 6th Street
East "F" Street from East 11th Street to Apollo Street
East "G" Street from East 3rd Street to East 4th Street
East "H" Street from Norris Avenue to Airport Road
East "L" Street from Norris Avenue to East 5th Street
East "M" Street from Norris Avenue to East 5th Street
East "O" Street from Norris Avenue thru Kelley Park Drive then thru Park View
to Seminole Drive
East "J" Street from East 11th Street to East 15th Street
Seminole Drive from Parkview to Park Avenue
Park Avenue from Kelley Park Drive to Norris Avenue
North Cherokee from Seminole Drive to Norris Avenue
All state highways within the city limits
West 1st Street from West "A" Street to West "O" Street
 
No Parking For 24 Hours During Snow Emergency
No Parking For 24 Hours During Snow Emergency
West 2nd Street from West "A" Street to West "E" Street
West 3rd Street from West "A" Street to north city limits
West Circle Drive from West "O" Street to West "Q" Street
West 5th Street from Public Safety Center to West "Q" Street
West 7th Street from West "B" Street to West "J" Street
West 8th Street from West "B" Street to West 7th Street
West 9th Street from West "B" Street to West "E" Street
West 10th Street from West "B" Street to West "Q" Street
West 14th Street from West "J" Street to West "O" Street
"A" Street from West 1st Street to East 2nd Street
"C" Street from West 5th Street to East 1st Street
"D" Street from West 7th Street to East 1st Street
"E" Street from West 7th Street to East 1st Street
West "J" Street from Spoon Drive to Norris Avenue
West "M" Street from Norris Avenue to West 14th Street
West "O" Street from Norris Avenue to West 5th Street; West 14th Street to N.
Hwy 83
West "P" Street from West 3rd Street thru West 1st Street; thru Marsh Avenue to
Norris Avenue
West "Q" Street from West 3rd Street to N. Hwy 83
West "F" Street from West 7th Street to West 5th Street
West "G" Street from West 7th Street to Westridge
West "H" Street from West 7th Street to Westridge; West 10th Street to N. Hwy.
83
Sunset Road from Westridge to West 10th Street
Federal Avenue from "B" Street to South Street
South Street from Federal Avenue to South Hwy 83
All streets on the golf course
 
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Ord. 1687, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 1730, passed 5-7-1984; Ord.
1831, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 1882, passed 11-20-1989)
CHAPTER 75: UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Operation of all-terrain vehicles prohibited; exceptions
   
75.03   Operation of utility-type vehicles on streets and highways
   
75.04   Utility-type vehicle; equipment required
   
75.05   Modification of utility-type vehicle prohibited
   
75.06   Registration
   
75.07   Operation of utility-type vehicle on state highway prohibited; limited
crossing permitted
   
75.08   Utility-type vehicle; accident; report required
   
75.09   Operation of utility-type vehicles and all-terrain type vehicles in a
parade
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is (a) 50
inches or less in width; (b) has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less; (c)
travels on three or more non-highway tires; (d) is designed for operator use
only with no passengers or is specifically designed by the original
manufacturer for the operator and one passenger.
   CITY STREETS AND ALLEYS. Those ways within the political subdivision that
are platted and dedicated to the City of McCook for use as a street or alley.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. A four-wheeled motor vehicle whose speed attainable in
one mile is more than 20 miles per hour and not more than 25 miles per hour on
a paved, level surface (see Neb. RS 60-501).
   STATE HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-
of-way, which has been designated a part of the state highway system.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which (a) is 74
inches in width or less; (b) is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper,
in length; (c) has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and (d) travels on
four or more non-highway tires. UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-
terrain vehicles, golf cart or golf car vehicles, or low-speed vehicles (see
Neb. RS 60-135.01).
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle, golf
cart, golf car, or low- speed vehicles upon any street, highway, or state
highway within the corporate limits of the city or upon any publicly owned
parking lot or other publicly owned property within the corporate limits of the
city. Except as otherwise provided, duly authorized all-terrain vehicles may be
operated within the political subdivision by authorized city personnel during
the course of their normal duties, educational personnel, and public power
utilities.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   All-terrain vehicle operation, see Neb. RS 60-6,356(2)(b)
§ 75.03 OPERATION OF UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   A utility-type vehicle may be operated on streets and highways (excluding
state highways) within the corporate limits of the city, in accordance with the
following operating requirements:
   (A)   Operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
   (B)   The headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on at all times;
   (C)   The total number of persons on the utility-type vehicle, including the
operator and all passengers, shall not exceed the seating capacity as designed
by the manufacturer of the utility-type vehicle;
   (D)   The utility-type vehicle shall have a registration decal issued by the
McCook Police Department as set forth in §
75.06;
   (E)   Any person operating a utility-type vehicle as authorized in this
section:
      (1)   Shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 miles per
hour and shall observe posted speed limits if lower than 30 miles per hour;
      (2)   Shall have a valid Class O operator's license;
      (3)   Shall obey all applicable state and local traffic laws, ordinances,
and regulations;
      (4)   Shall properly utilize seatbelts and all provided safety equipment
in the utility-type vehicle;
      (5)   Shall have liability insurance coverage for the utility-type
vehicle while operating the utility-type vehicle on any street or highway in
accordance with the State of Nebraska's Financial Responsibility Law as defined
in Neb. RS 60-6,356; and
      (6)   Shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace officer
requesting such proof within five days of such request as defined in Neb. RS
60-6,356.
   (F)   Shall not operate a utility-type vehicle on the sidewalks or walking
trails within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   All-terrain vehicle; utility-type vehicle operation provisions, see Neb. RS
60-6,356(3)
§ 75.04 UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE; EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every utility-type vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition;
   (C)   A United States Forest Service-qualified spark arrester;
   (D)   A rear-view mirror;
   (E)   A working headlight and taillight;
   (F)   Working turn signals; and
   (G)   A bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above the
ground attached to the rear of the vehicle, said bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day glow in color.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   All-terrain vehicle; utility-type vehicle operation provisions, see Neb. RS
60-6,356(3)
§ 75.05 MODIFICATION OF UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of a utility-type vehicle with a cutout,
bypass, or similar device;
   (B)   Operate a utility-type vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; and
   (C)   Operate a utility-type vehicle with a spark arrester removed or
modified, except for use in a closed-course competition event.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Modification of all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle; prohibited, see
Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 75.06 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be an offense for any person to operate any utility-type
vehicle within the corporate limits of the city unless:
      (1)   The utility-type vehicle has passed an inspection by the City of
McCook Police Department;
      (2)   The owner has demonstrated proof of insurance to the McCook Police
Department; and
      (3)   The owner has obtained from the McCook Police Department a
registration decal for the current year affixed to the utility-type vehicle in
a conspicuous place. Any person obtaining a current year registration decal to
operate a utility-type vehicle within the corporate limits of the city shall
pay to the city a fee set by resolution of the City Council as set forth in
Chapter 38, City of McCook's Fee Schedule. No registration decal fee shall be
assessed for registration of any political subdivision utility-type or all-
terrain type vehicle.
   (B)   All registrations issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
effective from January 1 to December 31, and all registrations shall expire
December 31 of the year in which they were issued.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to suspend or revoke the registration of a
utility-type vehicle within the city for violation of any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 75.07 OPERATION OF UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE ON STATE HIGHWAY PROHIBITED; LIMITED
CROSSING PERMITTED.
   A utility-type vehicle shall not be operated on any state highway with two
or more divided lanes, and the crossing of any state highway with two or more
divided lanes shall only be permitted if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the state highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or roadway of the state highway;
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
   (D)   The crossing is made only at a traffic signal-controlled intersection
of such state highway with another street or highway when the state highway
consists of more than two divided lanes; and
   (E)   Both the headlight and taillight of the utility-type vehicle are on
when the crossing is made.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Crossing a highway on an all-terrain or utility-type vehicle, see Neb. RS
60-6,036(5)
§ 75.08 UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE; ACCIDENT; REPORT REQUIRED.
   If an accident results in the death of any person, the injury of any person
which requires treatment of the person by a physician, or property damage in
the amount of $1,500 or more, the operator of each utility-type vehicle
involved shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided by
Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
Statutory reference:
   All-terrain vehicle; utility-type vehicle; accident; report required, see
Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 75.09 OPERATION OF UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND ALL-TERRAIN TYPE VEHICLES IN A
PARADE.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on streets
and highways without complying with this chapter while in parades which have
been authorized by the State of Nebraska, or any department, board, commission,
or political subdivision of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of $250 for a first offense. A second and subsequent
violation(s) of any aforementioned provision shall be punished by a fine of
$500. In addition to any penalties for a violation hereof, the City of McCook
Police Department may impound any all-terrain or utility-type vehicle when
operated in violation of Nebraska law or this code.
(Ord. 2024-3080, passed 8-19-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS; POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS; EXPLOSIVES
         
92.   FAIR HOUSING
         
93.   (RESERVED)
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
95.   NUISANCE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
96.   TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Running at large prohibited
   
90.02   Certain animals banned from city
   
90.03   Animal cruelty prohibited; defined
   
90.04   Vicious or dangerous animal; killing not cruelty
   
90.05   Maintenance of animal enclosures
   
90.06   Enforcement right of entry
   
90.07   Violation citation
   
90.08   Off-leash dog areas in city
Dogs; Cats; Hybrid Animals
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Running at large declared a public nuisance
   
90.22   Number of dogs and hybrid animals per residence
   
90.23   Running at large prohibited
   
90.24   [Reserved]
   
90.25   Capture impossible
   
90.26   Interference with police
   
90.27   Killing and poisoning
   
90.28   Barking and offensive dogs and hybrid dogs
   
90.29   Fighting of dogs and hybrid animals
   
90.30   Impounding
   
90.31   Feeding of feral animal
   
90.32   Owner's responsibility to pick up waste
   
90.33   Dangerous dogs and/or hybrid animals prohibited; terms defined
   
90.34   Dangerous dogs and/or hybrid animals; actions required; costs;
limitations on transport; permanent relocation; procedure
   
90.35   Dangerous dogs and/or hybrid animals; confinement required; warning
signs
   
90.36   Dangerous dogs and/or hybrid animals; confiscation, when; costs
   
90.37   Dangerous dogs and/or hybrid animals; disposal by court order
Rabies Immunization
   
90.40   Required of animals subject to rabies; certificate and tag
   
90.41   Type of vaccine to be used; reimmunization
   
90.42   Age when required
   
90.43   Animals found running at large without immunization tag attached to
collar or harness declared public nuisance
   
90.44   Confinement of animals to premises when public safety endangered by
rabid animals
   
90.45   Impoundment of animals without immunization tags; disposition of
impounded animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on
any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass
into any public way.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-235
§ 90.02 CERTAIN ANIMALS BANNED FROM CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, hogs, or similar animals or any
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas, or other fowl.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-240
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CRUELTY PROHIBITED; DEFINED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals shall be prohibited within the city limits. CRUELTY
shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   Physical abuse. It is unlawful for any person or persons to
willfully or maliciously kill, maim, disfigure, torture, beat with a stick,
chain, club or other object, mutilate, burn, or scald with any substance, or
otherwise cruelly set upon any animal, except that reasonable force may be
employed to drive off vicious or trespassing animals.
      (2)   Care and maintenance. It is unlawful for any person or persons to
fail, refuse, or neglect to provide any animal in his or her charge or custody,
as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shade, shelter, or veterinary
care as may be necessary for diseased or injured animals. Any animal habitually
kept outside shall be provided with a structurally sound, moisture-proof and
windproof shelter large enough to accommodate and keep the animal reasonably
clean, dry and comfortable.
      (3)   Leaving animals unattended in a vehicle. It is unlawful for any
person or persons to place or confine or allow an animal to be confined in a
manner that it must remain in a motor vehicle or trailer under conditions or
for periods of time as may endanger the health or well-being of the animal due
to heat, lack of food or water, or any circumstances which might cause
suffering, disability or death.
      (4)   Abandonment of animals. It is unlawful for any person or persons to
abandon or dump any animal within the city. All animals which are abandoned
shall be considered surrendered to the Animal Control Officer for impoundment
or disposal.
      (5)   Owner's cost. Any person or persons violating this section shall
bear full cost and expenses incurred by the city in the care, medical
treatment, impoundment cost, and disposal of animals, including removal from a
vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to animals confined prior to slaughter.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) (Ord. 1769, passed 2-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL; KILLING NOT CRUELTY.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)
§ 90.05 MAINTENANCE OF ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-206
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-240
§ 90.06 ENFORCEMENT RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   In the interest of public health, safety, and the general welfare in
regulating or prohibiting the keeping or running at large of any animal and
preventing violations of this chapter, any person keeping any animal in the
city by so doing does thereby authorize the Animal Control Officer or city
police to enter, without warrant, upon any private property (but not within the
residential structure) he or she owns or controls where the animal is to be
found for the purpose of enforcement of this chapter and to seize the animal
from the private property to abate ordinance violations. Prior to entering upon
the private property, the Animal Control Officer or city police officer must
first determine that there is probable cause to enter upon the premises and the
violation must be in plain view of the officer. Any animal seized pursuant to
this section shall immediately be transported to and confined at the city Pound
for disposition under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any Animal Control Officer or police officer shall observe a
violation of this section and seize an animal pursuant to this section, he or
she shall immediately issue an animal control citation to the owner of the
animal requiring the owner to appear before the County Court on or before the
date specified on the citation for hearing on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) (Ord. 1769, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 90.07 VIOLATION CITATION.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer of the city shall observe any violation of
this chapter, it shall be his or her duty to immediately issue an animal
control citation to the appropriate person.
   (B)   At the time of the commission of the alleged violation, the accused
may be served with a printed notice requiring him or her to make an appearance
on or before the date specified thereon and advising whether execution of a
waiver of appearance and plea of guilty has been made available by the Court
for the violation. The notice shall further apprise the accused that upon
direct refusal or failure to so appear, a warrant shall be issued for his or
her arrest, that he or she must appear at the Court during the hours fixed by
the judges of the City Court as shown on the notice.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 1769, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 90.08 OFF-LEASH DOG AREAS IN CITY.
   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, dogs that have
been vaccinated and display proper immunization tags and that have not been
determined to be dangerous and/or potentially dangerous by a court of law and
which are healthy and not in heat may be exercised off-leash within the areas
designated in division (B) below if under the care, custody or control of a
responsible person for the off-leash dog.
   (A)   Responsible person. A person having possession, charge, custody or
control of the off-leash dog must remain present with the off-leash dog at all
times, must carry a leash, must leash the dog at the first sign of aggression,
must clean up dog feces created by the dog, and bears full responsibility for
filling any holes and repairing any damage created by the dog. The person
responsible for the off-leash dog must comply with rules and regulations
regarding the park, and must remove the dog when the off-leash dog park is
closed.
   (B)   Off-leash dog areas. Dogs may be exercised off-leash in the following
areas:
      (1)   Barnett Park, within the fenced area designated as an off-leash dog
park subject to the rules and regulations of the operator of the park.
(Ord. 2019-2992, passed 11-14-2019; Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)
DOGS; CATS; HYBRID ANIMALS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG.  All dogs, male and female, of all ages.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal that results from cross breeding between an exotic
animal and a domestic animal.
   OWNER, POSSESSOR. Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog, cat, and/or
hybrid animal to be for ten days or more in or about his or her house, store,
or enclosure, or remain to be fed, shall be deemed the owner and possessor of
such dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal and shall be deemed to be liable for all
penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2020-2999, passed
3-16-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 77-4401
§ 90.21 RUNNING AT LARGE DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All dogs, cats, and/or hybrid animals found running at large upon the
streets and public grounds of the city are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Dogs, cats, and/or hybrid animals found running at large may be destroyed or
impounded in the Municipal Dog Shelter by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009)
§ 90.22 NUMBER OF DOGS AND HYBRID ANIMALS PER RESIDENCE.
   No owner shall be allowed to own or harbor more than three dogs and/or
hybrid animals in their household within the limits of the city. This section
does not include dogs, and/or hybrid animals that are younger than 12 weeks of
age.
(Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)  Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.23 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided for in § 90.08, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dog and/or hybrid animal to allow such dog and/or hybrid animal to run at large
at any time within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be the duty of
the Police Department or other officer designated by the City Manager to cause
any dog and/or hybrid animal found to be running at large within the
municipality to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog
and/or hybrid animal found off the premises of the owner, and not under control
of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope,
cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2017-2956, passed
9-5-2017; Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-235
§ 90.24 [RESERVED].
§ 90.25 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Police Department or other officer designated by the City Manager shall
have the authority to kill any animals presenting vicious behavior that
presents an eminent threat to the officer, showing vicious tendencies, or
characteristics of rabies, or impossible to capture, and presents a threat to
the public.
(Neb. RS 1-605) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-206
§ 90.26 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with any
police officer or other officer designated by the City Manager who is
performing any duty enjoined upon him/or her by the provisions of this
subchapter, or to break open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid,
counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any ambulance
wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs and/or
cats to the shelter.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal, or in any manner to
injure, maim, or destroy, or in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy
any dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal that is the property of another person, or
to lace any poison, or poisoned food where the same is accessible to a dog,
cat, and/or hybrid animal; provided, that this section shall not apply to
Municipal Police or other officers designated by the City Manager acting within
their power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE DOGS AND HYBRID DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any dog and/or hybrid
dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps to the great discomfort of the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) (Ord. 1676, passed 2-7-1983; Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-
2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-206
§ 90.29 FIGHTING OF DOGS AND HYBRID ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
and/or hybrid animals to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the
same to fight, or to train a dog and/or hybrid animal to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-206
§ 90.30 IMPOUNDING. 
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department or other officer designated by
the City Manager to capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to an animal
shelter any dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal violating any of the provisions of
this subchapter. The dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal so impounded shall be
treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal
shall be kept and maintained at the animal shelter for a period of 120 hours.
Any dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the
period of impoundment by payment of daily board fee and general impoundment fee
set out in the
Chapter 38 Fee Schedule of this Code of Ordinances. The owner of an impounded
dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal shall then be required to comply with the rabies
vaccination requirements within 120 hours after release. If the dog, cat, and/
or hybrid animal is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period the
police department or other officer designated by the City Manager may direct
the appropriate facility to dispose of the dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same;
provided, that if, in the judgment of the Police Department or other officer
designated by the City Manager, a suitable home can be found for any such dog,
cat, and/or hybrid animal within the city, the dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal
shall be turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to
pay all fees and meet all vaccination requirements provided in this subchapter.
The city shall acquire legal title to any dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period.
(Neb. RS 16-236) (Prior Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord.
2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.31 FEEDING OF FERAL ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed or maintain any dog, cat, and/or
hybrid animal that is a feral/wild animal.
(Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO PICK UP WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow their dog, cat, and/or hybrid
animal to defecate on public property without cleaning the feces from the area.
Public property includes city sidewalks, streets, parks, and all other public
ways, grounds, or any other parcel of property owned by the city.
(Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 DANGEROUS DOGS AND/OR HYBRID ANIMALS PROHIBITED; TERMS, DEFINED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone within the city limits to own, keep or
harbor a dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone within the city limits to own, keep or
harbor a potentially dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
      DANGEROUS DOG AND/OR HYBRID ANIMAL.
         (a)   A dog and/or hybrid animal that, according to the records of the
Police Department:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being resulting in a puncture
wound and/or an injury that requires medical treatment;
            3.   Has killed or injured a domestic animal without provocation,
and the injured animal requires veterinary care; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by a court order, the owner has received notice of such determination, and
the dog and/or hybrid animal inflicts an injury on a human being that does not
require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety
of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   1.   A dog and/or hybrid animal shall not be defined as A
DANGEROUS DOG AND/OR HYBRID ANIMAL under division (a)2. of this section, if the
individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog and/or hybrid animal
at the time of the injury or has, in the past, tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog and/or hybrid animal.
            2.   A dog and/or hybrid animal shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG AND/OR HYBRID ANIMAL under division (a)4. of this section, if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined by Nebraska statute, was committing
any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog and/or hybrid animal,
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog and/or hybrid animal, or has, in
the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
dog and/or hybrid animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
            3.   A dog and/or hybrid animal shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG AND/OR HYBRID ANIMAL under division (B) of this section if the dog and/or
hybrid animal is a police animal as defined by Nebraska statute.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog and/or hybrid animal.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG AND/OR HYBRID ANIMAL.
         (a)   Any dog and/or hybrid animal that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that is not a puncture
wound and does not require medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
         (b)   Any specific dog and/or hybrid animal with a known propensity,
tendency, or disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to
threaten the safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-
16-2020; Ord. 2020-3009, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-3017, passed 6-21-2021;
Ord. 2024-3094, passed 12-16-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 DANGEROUS DOGS AND/OR HYBRID ANIMALS; ACTIONS REQUIRED; COSTS;
LIMITATIONS ON TRANSPORT; PERMANENT RELOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal that has been declared as such
shall be spayed or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification
number by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The
cost of both procedures is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog
and/or hybrid animal. Written proof of both procedures and the microchip
identification number shall be provided to the police department after the
procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal shall permit the dog
and/or hybrid animal to go beyond the property of the owner unless the dog and/
or hybrid animal is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
   (C)   Except for a reasonable veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous
dog and/or hybrid animal shall transport such dog and/or hybrid animal or
permit such dog and/or hybrid animal to be transported to another county, city,
or village in this state.
(Neb. RS 54-618) (Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.35 DANGEROUS DOGS AND/OR HYBRID ANIMALS; CONFINEMENT REQUIRED; WARNING
SIGNS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal without such dog and/or hybrid animal being
confined so as to protect the public from injury.
   (B)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog and/or
hybrid animal shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the
entry of young children and to prevent the dog and/or hybrid animal from
escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground at a depth of at least one foot. The pen or structure
shall also protect the dog and/or hybrid animal from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog and/or hybrid animal is kept that are clearly visible
from all areas of public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog
and/or hybrid animal is on the property. Each warning sign shall be no less
than 10 inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and dangerous
animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a black
background.
   (C)   It is hereby required that the owner of a dangerous dog and/or hybrid
animal or potentially dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal obtain liability
insurance for each and every dog and/or hybrid animal they own that has been
declared to be a dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal or potentially dangerous
dog and/or hybrid animal with the minimum policy amount being $150,000 per dog
and/or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 54-619) (Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.36 DANGEROUS DOGS AND/OR HYBRID ANIMALS; CONFISCATION, WHEN; COSTS.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal may be immediately confiscated
by the Police Department if the owner is in violation of §§
90.33 through
90.37. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the
Police Department and the animal shelter for the care of a dangerous dog and/or
hybrid animal confiscated by the Police Department or for the destruction of
any dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal if the action by the Police Department
is pursuant to law and if the owner violated §§
90.33 through
90.37.
   (B)   If the dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal is deemed too dangerous to
safely control and board, a determination made in good faith by either the
Police Department or the animal shelter, the animal may be humanely euthanized
without being boarded. The owner shall still be responsible for any costs
associated with this action, including the costs of euthanasia and any related
legal or operational expenses.
(Neb. RS 54-620) (Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020; Ord. 2024-3094, passed 12-
16-2024)
§ 90.37 DANGEROUS DOGS AND/OR HYBRID ANIMALS; DISPOSAL BY COURT ORDER.
   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Police Department to
dispose of a dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621) (Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-16-2020)
RABIES IMMUNIZATION
§ 90.40 REQUIRED OF ANIMALS SUBJECT TO RABIES; CERTIFICATE AND TAG.
   Every person, owning, keeping or harboring a dog, cat, and/or hybrid animal
over the age of four months shall immunize the same against rabies; retain the
immunization certificate; and affix upon the collar of the animal an
immunization tag.
(Ord. 1768, passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.41 TYPE OF VACCINE TO BE USED; REIMMUNIZATION.
   Dogs, cats, and/or hybrid animals shall be immunized with an approved rabies
vaccine and shall be reimmunized each three years.
(Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.42 AGE WHEN REQUIRED. 
   Upon reaching the age of four months, all animals subject to rabies shall be
immunized by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.43 ANIMALS FOUND RUNNING AT LARGE WITHOUT IMMUNIZATION TAG ATTACHED TO
COLLAR OR HARNESS DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE. 
   All animals found running at large without a collar or harness having the
metal immunization tag affixed thereto are hereby declared a public nuisance
and may be destroyed as such according to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.44 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS TO PREMISES WHEN PUBLIC SAFETY ENDANGERED BY
RABID ANIMALS.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Manager, there is imminent danger to
the public safety from rabid animals, it shall be his or her duty to issue a
proclamation directing all persons owning, keeping or harboring any animal
subject to rabies to confine it to his or her premises or, while not so
confined, to have the animal on leash until the danger has abated.
(Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.45 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS WITHOUT IMMUNIZATION TAGS ; DISPOSITION OF
IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager or his or her authorized
representative, in a humane manner, to capture and remove to the animal shelter
any animal so owned, kept, or harbored that is running at large without the
immunization tag provided for in §
90.40 affixed to its collar or harness.
   (B)   No animal so taken shall be killed until after five days of public
notice have elapsed after its impounding, or until such officer, after
consulting the registration records, concludes that the animal has not been
immunized or that immunization has become ineffective by lapse of time and
until such officer has notified the person owning, keeping, or harboring such
animal, if his or her identity is known to him or her, to have the animal
immunized forthwith. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring such animal may
reclaim such animal within the five-day period of impoundment. All animals
unclaimed after such five-day impoundment shall be destroyed and buried.
   (C)   If such an animal has bitten a person and does not have an
immunization tag, the animal may immediately be humanely euthanized and sent
for rabies testing, as required to ensure public safety. The City Manager or
his or her authorized representative must make reasonable efforts to locate the
owner or ascertain whether the animal has been immunized before proceeding with
euthanasia and testing.
(Ord. 2009-2830, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2024-3094, passed 12-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4401 through 71-4412
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.23 and the dog and/or hybrid animal has been determined to be dangerous
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such violation
shall be in the amount of $750. A person who violates §
90.23 and the dog and/or hybrid animal has been determined to be a potentially
dangerous dog and/or hybrid animal, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
The penalty for such violation shall be in the amount of $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.23 and the dog and/or hybrid animal has not been determined to be dangerous
or potentially dangerous shall be deemed to be guilty of misdemeanor. The
penalty for such violation shall be in an amount of $50 for the first, second,
and third offenses; and $100 for a fourth and all subsequent offenses.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.33(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such
violation shall be in an amount not less than $750 nor more than $1,250;
provided that where licenses are due the city, the court shall order such
license secured and sums paid in addition to the fine fixed by the court. Any
person who violates §
90.33(B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such
violation shall be in an amount not less than $500 nor more than $750.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
90.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such violation shall be
$20 for the first offense and $50 for each subsequent offense.
(Neb. RS 16-236) (Ord. 2009-2826, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2020-2999, passed 3-
16-2020; Ord. 2021-3017, passed 6-21-2021)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS; POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS; EXPLOSIVES
Section
Fire Prevention
   
91.01   Life Safety Code adopted by reference
   
91.02   Duty to enforce
   
91.03   Right of entry for inspections
   
91.04   Inspections
   
91.05   Order for remedy of unsatisfactory conditions; appeal; failure to
comply
   
91.06   Procedure for service of order
   
91.07   Prohibited fires
   
91.08   Permitted fires
   
91.09   Open burning ban; waiver
   
91.10   Investigation of fire; report
   
91.11   Authority to order removal of property
   
91.12   Interference with duties
   
91.13   Interference with equipment
   
91.14   Disorderly spectator; refusal to assist
   
91.15   Obstruction of fire hydrant prohibited
   
91.16   Driving over hose prohibited
   
91.17   Traffic, pedestrian control during fire alarm
   
91.18   False alarm prohibited
   
91.19   Records
   
91.20   Fires outside city limits
   
91.21   Fire drills
   
91.22   Fire Department right-of-way
   
91.23   Interference with the Fire Department by electrical wires prohibited
   
91.24   Outdoor fireplaces
Fireworks
   
91.35   Definition
   
91.36   Permit required for retail sale
   
91.37   Prerequisites and qualifications for issuance of sales permit
   
91.38   Term of sales permit; transfer; days and hours of sale
   
91.39   Public displays
   
91.40   Person in charge of stand
   
91.41   Permitted fireworks; prohibited fireworks; temporary ban
   
91.42   Throwing firecrackers
   
91.43   Discharge of fireworks generally
Poisonous or Flammable Gas; Explosives
   
91.55   Storage registration
   
91.56   Blasting permits for explosives
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.01 LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city uses the same code as the State Fire Marshal's office, which is the
Life Safety Code, most current edition, and all subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 1805, passed 5-10-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-502
§ 91.02 DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated Fire
Code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 91.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed 11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 91.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all new
buildings that may be erected, before the buildings are plastered. The owner of
every new building shall report to the Fire Chief when the building shall be
ready for inspection; provided, however, that by resolution of the City
Council, this duty may be assigned to the City Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, or the City Inspector, when
directed to do so by the City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by
the Fire Department officers, members or some officer of the city chosen by the
Council, as often as may be necessary, but not less than once a year in
outlying districts and two times a year in the closely built portions of the
city, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the interiors of
private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected
any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violations of the provisions of
this code or the provisions or intent of any other ordinance affecting the fire
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
(Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed 11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 91.05 ORDER FOR REMEDY OF UNSATISFACTORY CONDITIONS; APPEAL; FAILURE TO
COMPLY.
   Whenever any officer or member shall find in any building, or upon any
premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish, or unnecessary accumulations of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings, or any other highly inflammable materials especially liable to cause
fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find
obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows,
liable to interfere with the operations of the Fire Department, or egress of
occupants, in case of fire, he or she shall order the same to be removed or
remedied, and the order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or
occupant of the premises or buildings, subject to appeal within 24 hours to the
City Manager, who shall within ten days review the order and file his or her
decision thereon, and unless the order is revoked or modified it shall remain
in full force and be obeyed by the owner or occupant. Any owner or occupant
failing to comply with the order within ten days after the appeal shall have
been determined, or, if no appeal is taken, then within ten days after the
service of the order, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 91.06 PROCEDURE FOR SERVICE OF ORDER.
   The service of any order pursuant to §
91.05 shall be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed by
either delivering a true copy of the order to the occupant personally or by
delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises, or in case no person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises.
Whenever it may be necessary to serve an order upon the owner of premises, the
order may be served either by delivering to the person a true copy of the
order, or, if the owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making
the order, by mailing a copy to the owner's last known post office address.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 91.07 PROHIBITED FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-226
§ 91.08 PERMITTED FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set fires within the city, provided
that the fires may be set in an incinerator built in compliance with National
Fire Code, Volume 7, Chapter 82, and further provided that the incinerator has
been inspected and approved for use by the Fire Chief or his or her designated
representative.
   (B)   Burning of straw, leaves, or brush in the open air will be permitted
only after a permit has been obtained from the Fire Chief or representative.
Persons seeking a permit may apply at the Public Safety Center from 8:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Open burning should be attended at all
times by the person setting the fire. No fire shall be allowed any closer than
ten feet from any building and the person setting and overseeing the fire shall
at all times keep the fire under control and have a means of extinguishment
close at hand.
(Prior Code, § 7-212) (Ord. 1774, passed 6-3-1985; Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-
1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed 11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227
§ 91.09 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   The State Fire Marshal may prohibit bonfires, outdoor rubbish fires, and
fires for the purpose of clearing land, by issuing an open burning ban on a
statewide or regional basis when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances
make the fires hazardous. The Fire Chief of the city Fire Department may waive
an open burning ban issued under this section for an area under his or her
jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief shall
be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the State
Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-213) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 91.10 INVESTIGATION OF FIRE; REPORT.
   The Fire Chief, or other person as he or she may designate, shall
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the
city. The investigation shall be begun within two days after the occurrence of
any fire. The officer making the investigations shall forthwith notify the
State Fire Marshal, and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish to the State Fire Marshal a written report of all facts relating to the
cause and origin of the fire and other information as may be called for by the
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 91.11 AUTHORITY TO ORDER REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge at the time, shall have the
authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection of
human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The Fire
Chief, or any officer in charge, may direct the city firefighters to remove any
building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire. The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge, shall have the authority to
blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives, any building or structure
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the
same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2584, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222, 16-246
§ 91.12 INTERFERENCE WITH DUTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief, or any officer in charge, or the members of the Fire Department in
the performance of their duty.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord.
2001-2584, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 91.13 INTERFERENCE WITH EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, destroy, handle, or in any
other way to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and
other apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.14 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR; REFUSAL TO ASSIST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Fire Chief, or any officer in charge, or to act in a noisy or
disorderly manner. The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge, shall have the
power and authority during this time to arrest or command any person to assist
them in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of
the Fire Chief, or any officer in charge, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to
assist in the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2584, passed 11-19-
2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any obstruction within six feet of, or to park any vehicle
within 15 feet of, the hydrant. Any vehicle or obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief, or any other officer in charge, or any member of the
Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord.
2001-2584, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DRIVING OVER HOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or any officer in charge, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the
Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 7-107) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord.
2001-2584, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 TRAFFIC, PEDESTRIAN CONTROL DURING FIRE ALARM.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
any officer in charge, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department, or emergency vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (Prior Code, § 7-108)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any
street after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-110)
(Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2584, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.18 FALSE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Neb. RS 28-907) (Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 35-520
§ 91.19 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep a list of all members of the Volunteer Fire
Department, showing the date each joined the Department, and other data as the
City Manager may require.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall also maintain a record of all fires and fire
alarms, or their location, of the class of building or structure so damaged or
destroyed, of the purpose for which it was used, of the cause of the fire, the
amount of the loss, the amount of insurance and other information as to him or
her or the City Manager seems important. He or she shall include in the report
a record of any injury that may have been sustained by any person on account of
the fire or fire alarm.
   (C)   The records maintained pursuant to this section shall at all times be
available for the inspection of the City Manager and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 91.20 FIRES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The Fire Department shall not go to any fire beyond the city limits with the
city fire apparatus without the consent of the City Manager, unless previously
approved by the City Manager and City Council under a mutual aid or other
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 7-112)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 91.21 FIRE DRILLS.
   The Fire Department shall hold a fire drill at least six times per year at
such times as the Fire Chief shall designate.
(Prior Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 91.22 FIRE DEPARTMENT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Personnel of the Fire Department shall have the right-of-way upon any
street, alley or highway when going to or returning from fires, drill, or
ambulance calls had under the direction or by order of the Fire Chief or any
officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 7-114) (Ord. 96-2351, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2584, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-222
§ 91.23 INTERFERENCE WITH THE FIRE DEPARTMENT BY ELECTRICAL WIRES PROHIBITED.
   No wire shall be installed, operated, or maintained over any street, alley,
sidewalk, or building in the city which shall be liable to seriously interfere
with the work of the Fire Department in the use of ladders or other apparatus,
or which shall obstruct or render hazardous the use of fire escapes, and on
complaint of the Chief of the Fire Department such obstructing, interfering, or
hazardous wire shall be removed or properly rearranged.
(Prior Code, § 9-411) (Ord. 2016-2930, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 91.24 OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
   The term OUTDOOR FIREPLACES shall include fire pits and portable fire pits.
These residential outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel and are used for
contained recreational fires located at a private  residence for the purpose of
outdoor cooking and personal enjoyment. Fire pits are usually constructed of
steel, concrete and/or stones and constructed above or below ground with a
heavy steel screen cover. Portable fire pits are defined as being commercially
designed and intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires. Outdoor
fireplaces do not include barbeque grills that use propane, charcoal or any
other fuel used primarily for outdoor cooking. Outdoor fireplaces also do not
include Chimineas. Chimineas are defined as an outdoor patio fireplace, usually
made from clay, intended to confine and control outdoor wood fires. All outdoor
fireplaces shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Clearances. A minimum ten foot clearance shall be maintained between
the outdoor fireplace and combustible walls, roofs, fences, decks, and other
combustible material. Permanent fire pits being constructed prior to adoption
of this section are removed from this requirement.
   (B)   Construction. Outdoor fireplaces shall be constructed of concrete or
approved non-combustible materials. The fire fuel area and openings shall be
completely enclosed by a steel screening (spark guard) or an approved non-
combustible screening material with openings no greater than one-half inch
square. Not permitted are barrels, half-barrels, drums or similarly constructed
devices.
   (C)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than four feet
in diameter and a height of more than three feet.
   (D)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be located on combustible
balconies or decks and shall not be located under any combustible balcony or
any overhanging portion of a structure.
   (E)   Type of materials being burnt. Materials allowed by this section shall
be limited to untreated wood or approved fireplace starter logs. Petroleum
products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any material
that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat, smoke, or
offensive smell shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Amount of material being burnt. Users must:
      (1)   Limit the amount of material being burnt to ensure the flames are
confined inside the fuel area of the outdoor fireplace and the flames do not
extend above the pit; and
      (2)   Follow the manufacturer's recommendation on the maximum amount of
fuel to be used at one time with spark guard in place.
   (G)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under supervision by at least
one responsible person of age 16 or older from the ignition of the fire until
the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cooled so as to prohibit the
fire from rekindling.
   (H)   Provisions for protection.  A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire extinguishing equipment, such as a bucket of water,
shall be readily available for use.
   (I)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated
when winds are blowing over 20 miles per hours and wind direction will cause
smoke, embers, or other burning materials to be carried by the wind toward any
building or other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be
operating when weather conditions are extremely dry.
   (J)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and
care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
   (K)   Discontinuance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a
nuisance for neighboring property owners. The Fire Chief and/or his designee is
authorized to require outdoor fireplace use to be immediately discontinued if
the use of the outdoor fireplace is determined by the chief to constitute a
hazardous condition to the occupants of surrounding property.
   (L)   Permit. A site plan showing the location of any above or below ground
fire pit on the property and a detailed drawing of the construction of the fire
pit, including measurements, shall be submitted to the Building Inspector for
review. Upon approval, a permit will be issued. Utility locations must be
obtained and accounted for prior to approval of any fire pit construction. No
fire pit or similar above or below ground structure shall be permitted which
may interfere with any utility. A permit will not be required for portable fire
pits provided they are commercially designed and have been approved by an
independent testing laboratory.
(Ord. 2017-2948, passed 5-1-2017)
FIREWORKS
§ 91.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.36 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR RETAIL SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale as a distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
Licensed vendors shall only sell fireworks which have been approved by the
State Fire Marshal and such permissible fireworks may be sold at retail June 28
through July 4 during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and December 28
through December 31 during the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell at retail
within the city any fireworks, as defined and permitted under the statutes of
the state, without having first secured a permit from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 PREREQUISITES AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF SALES PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person making application for a permit required by §
91.36 shall:
      (1)   Pay to the city the sum of $75 for each selling period per §
91.36(A) which sum shall be retained by the city as an occupation tax;
      (2)   File with the Fire Chief a written statement giving the location of
the retail outlets;
      (3)   File with the Fire Chief all applications for permits by June 20 of
the year for which the applicant wishes the permit to sell in June and July and
by December 20 of the year for which the applicant wishes the permit to sell in
December and January; and
      (4)   Provide to the Fire Chief the manner of storage for their fireworks
and the location of the storage place.
   (B)   No person under the age of 19 years shall be granted a permit.
   (C)   A past record of violations may result in the denial of a permit. This
determination is to be made by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   (D)   All firework stands must be provided with at least one fire
extinguisher which is approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.38 TERM OF SALES PERMIT; TRANSFER; DAYS AND HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   The permit required by §
91.36, when issued by the Fire Chief, shall be valid beginning June 28 at 8:00
a.m. and ending July 4 at 10:00 p.m. of the year of issue, and shall not be
transferable. A second permit will be required for the sale of fireworks during
the second period of December 28 through December 31. This permit shall be
valid beginning December 28 at 8:00 a.m. and ending December 31 at 10:00 p.m.
of each year of issue, and shall not be transferable.
   (B)   Fireworks may be sold June 28 through July 4 during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and December 28 through December 31 during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 7-404) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.39 PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   Public exhibitions or displays of discharging fireworks may be conducted
without a sales permit, but shall be conducted according to rules and
regulations prescribed by the State Fire Marshal in cooperation with the City
Fire Chief. Where supervisors are required, the sponsor of the exhibition or
display shall hire or engage the services of supervisors, who shall be approved
by the City Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-405) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.40 PERSON IN CHARGE OF STAND.
   Any licensed fireworks stand or firm engaged in the sale of fireworks shall
have a person age 16 years or older in charge of the sale of fireworks and on
the stand premises at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-406) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 91.41 PERMITTED FIREWORKS; PROHIBITED FIREWORKS; TEMPORARY BAN.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to
be exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except as
defined and permitted under the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
fireworks to be used for the purpose of public exhibitions or display under the
authorization of the governing body, or to fireworks furnished for agricultural
purposes pursuant to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Temporary ban prohibiting the use of permissible fireworks. If the use
of permissible fireworks within the city during the current and forecasted
weather conditions creates a very high risk of fire danger within the city and
areas surrounding the city that represents an unacceptable risk to the public's
health, safety and welfare, the McCook City Council may issue a temporary ban
that prohibits the discharge of all fireworks. This decision will be based on
current and forecasted weather conditions and Red Flag Warnings after
consultation with the Fire Chief and/or his or her representative.
      (1)   This temporary ban shall not however, apply to the possession,
storage or sale of permissible fireworks, which activities shall continue to be
legal as currently authorized in accordance with the applicable provisions of
this Fire Code.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit an annual Fourth of July
professional fireworks display by the City of McCook or duly authorized agent/
organization/or individual.
   (D)   Penalty. Violations of this section shall be enforced, cited,
prosecuted and punished as misdemeanor offenses in accordance with §
91.99(A). In addition, the remaining and undischarged permissible fireworks in
possession of a person cited for a violation under this section may be seized,
subject to any Fourth Amendment requirements, by the City Police Department as
evidence and, if the person cited is convicted of the violation, the Court may
order the seized permissible fireworks to be destroyed as contraband by the
McCook Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-407) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2012-2886, passed 11-19-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object, from or into a motor vehicle,
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk, at or near any person, into any
building, or into or at any group of persons. It shall further be unlawful to
discharge fireworks within 100 feet of a fireworks stand.
(Prior Code, § 7-408) (Ord. 2002-2636, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2007-2801, passed
11-5-2007; Ord. 2010-2846, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS GENERALLY.
   Permitted days and hours. Fireworks maybe discharged only during the period
of time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on June 23 through and
including July 3, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on July 4,
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. July 5, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on December 28 through and including December 30, and
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. December 31 and 1:00 a.m. January 1. A person
may discharge fireworks at times other than those times designated in this
division upon obtaining a permit to do so, which permit shall be issued by the
Fire Chief of the Fire Department. A person commits the offense of discharging
fireworks if he/she discharges fireworks except during the periods and times as
specified above.
(Ord. 2007-2801, passed 11-5-2007; Ord. 2009-2833, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 2010-
2846, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS; EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.55 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time,
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives, or any form of
poisonous or flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the city shall
register the information with the City Clerk prior to bringing the gases or
explosives in the city. The Clerk shall provide the information to the City
Fire Chief who shall grant or deny permission to bring the materials into the
city. Transfer of gases or explosives to another individual within the city
shall require the individual receiving the gases or explosives to register and
receive permission to transfer the gases or explosives. This section shall not
apply to the storage of five gallons or less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 96-2350, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 2001-2585, passed
11-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227
§ 91.56 BLASTING PERMITS FOR EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must secure
a permit from the governing body and shall discharge the explosives in
conformance with its direction and under its supervision, and in no case shall
any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
State Patrol.
(Neb. RS 28-1229) (Prior Code, § 7-302) (Ord. 1897, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 91.99 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court, provided whenever any section of
this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be
penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-501)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action. it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful acts
   
92.04   Discrimination against handicapped person prohibited; construction
standards
   
92.05   Discrimination prohibited in residential real estate transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination prohibited in real estate listing and broker services
   
92.07   Use restrictions not prohibited
   
92.08   Information supplied for free
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the state Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall be no
discrimination in the city in the acquisition, ownership, possession, or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article I, § 25 of the state
constitution.
(Prior Code, § 9-610) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specifications limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
(Prior Code, § 9-611) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
92.07, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a
dwelling, to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status, or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or an
intention to make any preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex
of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of the employee or agent because of the employee's compliance with
this chapter or the state Fair Housing Act; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood or a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Prior Code, § 9-612) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION AGAINST HANDICAPPED PERSON PROHIBITED; CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
92.07, it shall be unlawful to discriminate in the sale or rental of or
otherwise make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of
a handicap of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
      (3)   Any person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is sold, rented, or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, discrimination shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person, if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after January 1, 1995, a failure to
design and construct the dwellings in a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms so that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c) of this section.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 9-613) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction because of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status, or sex.
(Prior Code, § 9-614) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED IN REAL ESTATE LISTING AND BROKER SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against any person
in the terms or conditions of access, membership, or participation on account
of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
(Prior Code, § 9-615) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 USE RESTRICTIONS NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preferences to persons unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodging which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this subsection, housing
for older persons shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the Commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-616) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 92.08 INFORMATION SUPPLIED FOR FREE.
   The City Clerk, upon request, shall make available to an aggrieved person,
or any other person, information regarding the state Fair Housing Act and the
state Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to the individual.
(Prior Code, § 9-617) (Ord. 2004-2704, passed 8-16-2004)
CHAPTER 93: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
94.01   Snow removal from sidewalks required
   
94.02   Notice
   
94.03   Sidewalk maintenance and repair
   
94.04   Construction of sidewalk by owner
   
94.05   Sidewalk width and location
   
94.06   Sidewalk construction specifications
   
94.07   Nonconforming construction
   
94.08   Removal of sidewalk for building purpose
   
94.09   Sidewalk construction by city; bid procedure
   
94.10   Duty of Clerk to maintain sidewalk records
   
94.11   Duties of City Manager
   
94.12   Cost of construction of sidewalks
   
94.13   Construction of crossings and crosswalks
Streets
   
94.25   Street names and numbers
   
94.26   Street crossings
   
94.27   Authority to widen or open streets
   
94.28   Driving stake or peg into public pavement prohibited
   
94.29   Mixing concrete directly on pavement prohibited
   
94.30   Placing or permitting solvent liquid on pavement prohibited
   
94.31   Heavy equipment routes
   
94.32   Depositing snow on pavement prohibited
   
94.33   Hauling or dropping of unsecured material prohibited
   
94.34   Excavations; permit; surety bond
   
94.35   Barriers to protect pavement
   
94.36   Location of public utility service company wires and pipes
   
94.37   Petition for creation of improvement district
   
94.38   Deferral from special assessment
   
94.39   Driveway approaches
   
94.40   Cutting curb or gutter
 
   
94.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.01 SNOW REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or the owner of any vacant
lot within the city to permit snow, sleet, mud, ice, or any other substance to
accumulate on the sidewalk contiguous thereto, or to permit any hard-trodden
snow, ice or mud to remain upon such sidewalk. The owner or occupant of any
property within the city zoned residentially shall be required to clean the
sidewalk within 24 hours after the cessation of any snow or sleet storm. The
owner or occupant with any property within the city zoned commercially shall be
required to clean sidewalks adjacent to the property by 10:00 a.m. of the
morning immediately following the cessation of any snow or sleet storm.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-663
§ 94.02 NOTICE.
   Notice to remove snow, sleet, mud, ice, or other substance from the sidewalk
adjacent to any lot shall be served on the owner, agent, or occupant of the
premises when the substances are not removed pursuant to §
94.01. The notice shall demand the removal of the substance forthwith. If the
person owning the premises is unknown or cannot be found, or if reasonable
service cannot be made upon any owner, agent, or occupant within the city, then
service of the notice shall be made by posting a typewritten copy thereof in
some conspicuous place on the premises. In case the owner, agent, or occupant
fails to remove the ice, snow, mud, or other substance, then the Public Works
Director or his or her authorized agent may remove the substance, and the
expense thereof shall be charged against the property and the owner thereof,
and may be recovered by proper action in the name of the city or charged
against the property as a special assessment for improvements.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) (Ord. 2016-2924, passed 5-2-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-663
§ 94.03 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to the lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk,
and the governing body shall have power to cause any sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against the property. In
the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time the required notice was first
published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
   (B)   The Public Works Director may require sidewalks of the city to be
repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which the sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice the
owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. The repairs shall be
completed within 21 days after issuance of the notice. No special assessment
shall be levied against the property unless the owner shall neglect or refuse
to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that the owner fails to
repair, the city shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the property
owner the expense of the repairs. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-662
§ 94.04 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the Public Works Director. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Public Works Director shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied; provided, if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade, or elevation, the Public Works Director shall submit the
application to the governing body who shall determine whether the permit should
be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
cause to be constructed, a sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation
than designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on
the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then
on the grade or elevation indicated by the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661
§ 94.05 SIDEWALK WIDTH AND LOCATION.
   All sidewalks, except as provided to the contrary by resolution of the Mayor
and Council, shall be five feet in width. Whenever possible, they shall
correspond in width to sidewalks already built, to which they are adjacent or
adjoined. Unless otherwise specified, all new sidewalks shall be built upon the
terrace, separated by a minimum of five feet from the curb located along the
street.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661
§ 94.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All concrete sidewalks shall be laid upon a four-inch bed or
foundation of well compacted gravel, coal, cinders, or well-tamped dirt, having
a covering of at least one inch of sand and having an inclination toward the
gutter of one inch to each five feet in width. All sidewalks shall conform to
the specifications adopted by the city as to the quality of work and materials.
The whole work of grading and laying any sidewalk, whether done by the city, or
by the owner of the respective lot, lots, or parcels of land abutting upon the
same, shall be done under the supervision of the City Manager or the Public
Works Director and subject to their approval. All sidewalks shall conform to
the grade, where established, and on streets where no grade is established,
then on a grade established by the Public Works Director with relation to the
particular points between which the sidewalk is to be built. The Director shall
establish grades on streets where the same have not yet been run. Sidewalks
shall be built on a grade or level as near as possible to the grade or level of
the surface of the ground. When ordered by the Council, any property owner
shall rebuild or reconstruct his or her sidewalk to conform to the grade thus
established.
   (B)   All sidewalks which shall be constructed, reconstructed or replaced
after the effective date of this chapter shall be made of concrete. Whenever
any person shall desire to repair any now existing sidewalk constructed with
any other material than is prescribed, he or she shall secure a permit to do so
from the City Manager before the work shall be undertaken. In no case shall a
permit be granted where the amount of repairs in the aggregate exceeds one-
third of the running feet in the walk.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661
§ 94.07 NONCONFORMING CONSTRUCTION.
   In case any owner of a lot or piece of land within the city, under notice
given or otherwise, shall construct a sidewalk in violation of this chapter,
the Public Works Director may stop the work of the construction and order the
same to be constructed in accordance with this chapter and the work already
done to be changed, and on the failure of the owner to change any work, the
Public Works Director shall forthwith change the work and the expense of the
change shall be assessed and taxed to the lot and collected as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661, 16-662
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF SIDEWALK FOR BUILDING PURPOSE.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee of any lot or any contractor or builder of any
owner, tenant, or lessee, who shall take up or remove any sidewalk, crossing,
flagging, or other material used as a sidewalk or crossing, for the purposes of
building upon or improving any lot or property adjacent thereto, shall relay
and replace the sidewalk, crossing, or flagging, within ten days after the wall
of the first story of the building is constructed.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661, 16-662
§ 94.09 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION BY CITY; BID PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of
a sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the city. Notice of the
governing body's intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the City
Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
      (2)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant
in possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon the premise ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the City
Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. The service shall
include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting as herein
required.
      (3)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the city will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the cost
thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise,
provided the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of the
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-210)
   (B)   Whenever the city shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the City Attorney, specifying the work to be done
and calling for bids for doing the work and supplying the necessary materials
and labor, shall be published in at least one issue of a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the city, provided bids so invited shall be filed in the
office of the City Clerk within ten days after the date of publication. Bids
shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of the governing body,
and the governing body shall then award the work to the lowest responsible
bidder. Upon approval of the work, the governing body may require the
contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or her by the City
Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special taxes against the real
estate whenever the assessments or special taxes shall be collected, together
with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the
legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which the
assessments or special taxes are assessed. The certificate or certificates may
be assigned and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if held
by the original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to the
contractor or other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments
or special taxes against the real estate, together with the interest and
penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation of the certificate or
certificates after the assessments or special taxes against the real estate,
together with interest or penalty thereon, shall have been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-211)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-321, 16-664, 16-666
§ 94.10 DUTY OF CLERK TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALK RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of sidewalks built, rebuilt, or widened
by the city, which shall contain the date the same was ordered, the time in
which the walk is to be built, widened, or rebuilt, the width of the walk, upon
what street and in front of what lot or parcel of land, with the distance from
the lot line that the walk is required to be laid, the name of the contractor,
the date of the contract, the date of inspection and acceptance of the work,
with a proper space or column for the number of feet, rate per foot, charges
for advertising and inspection, and with a space or column for summary or total
of all costs and expenses made against any lot or piece of ground and other
details as may be deemed necessary by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-212)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-317
§ 94.11 DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall certify to the Council as to all sidewalks laid,
widened, or rebuilt, and the cost of same to be levied against each adjacent
lot or piece of ground, and as to other facts as may be necessary to enable it
to make the proper levy. He or she shall also certify as to when the walks have
been accepted, or what action he or she has taken thereon.
(Prior Code, § 8-213)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-646
§ 94.12 COST OF CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The cost of construction, widening, or rebuilding of any sidewalk
shall be levied upon the lot or lots or parcel of ground fronting and adjoining
which the sidewalks are laid, widened, or rebuilt, by resolution, which shall
specify the street upon which the sidewalk has been so constructed, widened, or
rebuilt, the length and width of each sidewalk constructed, widened, or
rebuilt, fronting on any lot or piece of ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-214)
   (B)   Corner lots shall be charged with the cost of the sidewalk as was
required to be laid for the intersection of the walks abutting the frontage of
the lots to the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 8-215)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661, 16-662
§ 94.13 CONSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS AND CROSSWALKS.
   The city shall construct all crossing and crosswalks from curb line to curb
line in all streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-216)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-661
STREETS
§ 94.25 STREET NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along the streets shall retain numbers as the governing
body may require. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, upon the erection of
any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to the building or
buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and occupant or occupants of
the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-614
§ 94.26 STREET CROSSINGS.
   The governing body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Public Works Director, street, avenue, and alley crossings
as the governing body shall deem necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any crossings is filed by an interested resident in the office
of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the Public
Works Director who shall investigate and make his or her recommendation to the
governing body. Action by the governing body on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-617
§ 94.27 AUTHORITY TO WIDEN OR OPEN STREETS.
   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley,
or lane within the limits of the city, and to create, open, and improve any new
street, alley, or lane, provided all damages sustained shall be ascertained in
a manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-645
§ 94.28 DRIVING STAKE OR PEG INTO PUBLIC PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210, 16-609
§ 94.29 MIXING CONCRETE DIRECTLY ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210, 16-609
§ 94.30 PLACING OR PERMITTING SOLVENT LIQUID ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210, 16-609
§ 94.31 HEAVY EQUIPMENT ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or
operate heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk, or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected the
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges, with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the Public Works Director is
hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of
the vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter, inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1
and April 15, provided that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year. It shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets. It shall be permissible to use a rubber-tired crane with a fixed load
when the vehicle will be transported on a state highway or on any road within
the corporate limits of the city, the city in which the crane is intended to be
transported has authorized a one-day permit for the transportation of the crane
and specified the route to be used and the hours during which the crane can be
transported, the vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned by
the city, and the vehicle's gross weight does not exceed the limits set out in
Neb. RS 60-6,294 and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250) (Prior Code, § 8-307)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-209
§ 94.32 DEPOSITING SNOW ON PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other party to
remove snow from any public, semi-public or private parking lot or driveways
and place it upon any street or sidewalk within the city. Also, it shall be
unlawful for snow to be placed within 150 feet of the intersecting center lines
of two streets at height above which the snow would become a traffic hazard by
inhibiting proper site distance at intersections herein determined to be a
height of two feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210
§ 94.33 HAULING OR DROPPING OF UNSECURED MATERIAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul and move any sand, gravel,
dirt, trash, garbage, or debris of any kind or character over or along any of
the streets or alleys of the city in any vehicle which does not have a tight
bed or box.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person hauling and moving sand,
gravel, dirt, trash, garbage, or debris of any kind or character to permit any
of the sand, gravel, dirt, trash, garbage, or debris to fall or drop from the
vehicle in which it is being moved, upon any of the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-209, 16-210, 16-230
§ 94.34 EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT; SURETY BOND.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall dig or make any excavation in any street or
alley in the city for any purpose without first obtaining a permit from the
Public Works Director to do so.
      (2)   An excavation permit shall be issued only upon the written
application of the party desiring the permit, which application shall be filed
in an orderly manner and duly preserved. The person shall be required to
maintain good and sufficient barricades, guards, lights, and signals as will
protect the public from injury or loss. The applicant shall deposit with the
City Clerk a sum sufficient to cover the cost of replacing any paving so
removed and it is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director to cause
the pavement to be replaced, and after paying the expense thereof, the balance
of the money, if any, shall be returned to the applicant.
      (3)   In case of any damage to any cables, wires, or other fixtures of
the telephone company, electric light company or the city, resulting from any
street excavation, the property owner for whom the excavation was being done
shall pay the amount of the damage to the owner of the cables, wires or other
fixtures damaged.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
   (B)   Any person desiring to make any excavation in any street or alley in
the city or upon any city-owned property may be required by the City Manager to
post a cash bond to ensure the proper and timely repair of the streets or
alleys following excavation as permitted under §
94.33 above. The cash bond shall be in an amount of $2,500. The bond shall
ensure the workmanship of the street repair for a period of one year and may be
made applicable to more than one excavation repair made by a company, person,
or firm provided that the total estimated cost of the repair does not exceed
$2,500.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-232
§ 94.35 BARRIERS TO PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   No person shall remove, destroy or tear down any barricade, fence, railing
or other device erected or constructed for the purpose of protecting paving or
any other work while the work is in the course of construction or after it has
been constructed, on any of the streets, alleys, or public grounds of the city.
No person shall drive over or upon or go upon any paving or other public work
in any of the streets, alleys, or public grounds of the city while the same is
protected by any barrier, fence, or railing or until the barrier, fence, or
railing has been removed by the contractors having the work in charge, or by
the duly authorized officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-312) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-210, 16-609
§ 94.36 LOCATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE COMPANY WIRES AND PIPES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipelines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and
wires shall at all times erect and locate its poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, and other appurtenances at places and in the manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. The poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the City Clerk shall
notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours
after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where the poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall be reset,
placed, or erected in a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system, sewerage system, poles, wires, and mains of any public utility,
adjacent buildings, or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall
be confined to the alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-210, 16-232
§ 94.37 PETITION FOR CREATION OF IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   Owners of lots or lands abutting upon any street, avenue, or alley within
the city representing three-fourths of the front footage thereon may petition
the governing body to create an improvement district, so that a district when
created will make up one continuous or extended thoroughfare or more without
cost to the city. The governing body shall assess the entire cost of any
improvements in any street, avenue, or alley, including intersections of
streets or avenues and spaces opposite alleys, against the private property
within the improvement district, or districts. It shall be the duty of the
governing body to create the proper improvement district or districts, which
shall be consecutively numbered, and to improve the same and to proceed in the
same manner and form as hereinbefore provided for in other paving and
improvement districts. The governing body shall have power to levy the entire
cost of the improvements of any street, avenue, or alley, including
intersections of streets or avenues and spaces opposite alleys, against the
private property within the district, and to issue street improvement bonds to
pay for the improvements. The bonds shall be issued to cover the entire cost of
so improving the streets or avenues, intersections of the same, and spaces
opposite alleys. If the assessments hereinbefore provided for, or any part
thereof, shall fail, or for any reason shall be invalid, the governing body may
make other and further assessments upon the lots or lands as may be required to
collect from the same the cost of any improvements properly chargeable thereto,
as herein provided. The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area to be improved has not
previously been improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of
streets. If the governing body should deny a requested improvement district
formation, it shall state its grounds for denial in a written letter to
interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 1712, passed 10-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-624
§ 94.38 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a city creates a paving district which
includes land adjacent to the city which is within an agricultural use zone and
is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record title of the
adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments. For purposes
of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall
have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure the assessment, make application to the governing body
of the city within 90 days after creation of the paving district. Any owner of
record title who makes application for the deferral provided by this section
shall notify the County Register of Deeds of the application in writing prior
to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall approve the
application of any owner of record title upon determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove the deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for the deferral, the owner of record title of the
property shall pay to the city an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against the property, to the extent of special benefits, had the
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which the assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (3) of this
section, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding the sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 1713, passed 10-3-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 94.39 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Public Works Director may require the owner of property served by
a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or otherwise
deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause damage to
or interfere with any street structure including pavement or sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Public Works
Director may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-316) (Ord. 1760, passed 10-1-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 94.40 CUTTING CURB OR GUTTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Public Works
Director therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall
inform the Director of the place where the cutting is to be done, and it shall
be the duty of the Director or his or her authorized agent to inspect the place
of entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When
cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving
under the rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or
the Public Works Director. When the applicant is ready to close the opening
made, he or she shall inform the Public Works Director or his or her authorized
agent, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in
closing the opening.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-609
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court; provided, whenever any section of
this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be
penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
   (C)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 8-502)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Defined
   
95.02   Specific nuisances
   
95.03   Abatement services and notice procedure for nuisances
   
95.04   Land bank procedure
 
   
95.19   Jurisdiction
Noise
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Prohibited noises
   
95.22   Maximum permissible sound levels
   
95.23   Permit for relief from noise level designation required
   
95.24   Exceptions for emergency vehicles; temporary licensed or permitted
activities
Noxious Weeds; Litter; Stagnant Water
   
95.35   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINED.
   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street, or
highway in the municipality;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
   (G)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 2025-3101, passed 4-7-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 95.02 SPECIFIC NUISANCES.
   A “nuisance” includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
   (B)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or polluted
air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and safety;
   (C)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or which
are foul or malodorous;
   (D)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house-yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (E)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
   (F)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
   (G)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
   (H)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
   (I)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (J)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats or other
insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or
which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity;
   (K)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
   (L)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (M)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained and kept in
such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (N)   Dead, dying or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one
mile zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits (see Neb. RS 17-555);
   (O)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
   (P)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and rodents;
   (Q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain trash,
garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperable, or partially
destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind, including any
junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery, and equipment;
   (R)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
“Vehicle” means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a “motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer, or semitrailer.” “Properly registered”
means as required by Nebraska Statutes;
   (S)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth; and
   (T)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in the
city code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 2025-3101, passed 4-7-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 95.03 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES.
   The city shall maintain two processes for abating nuisance properties. The
first process shall utilize the Board of Health. The second process shall
utilize a Nuisance Officer. The city shall be responsible for determining the
appropriate process for the real estate that violates herein §
95.01 and §
95.02.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee of
real estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public
nuisances.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall meet as prescribed under §
35.045(C).
      (1)   The Board of Health shall inspect the property as shall come to its
attention as being in violation of these requirements. Should the owner of any
property prohibit the Board of Health from entering upon the property to make
inspection, the Board shall apply to the County or District Court for an order
authorizing inspection of the property.
      (2)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official
that the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the governing body and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the
nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition
as found by the Board of Health or designated official and state that the
condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
      (3)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the municipality or fails to comply with the order
to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
      (4)   If within five days after receipt of such notice of publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the governing body, the governing body shall fix a time and place
at which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by
personal service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear
before the governing body to show cause why such condition should not be found
to be a nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven
nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for
the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the governing body shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Board of Health or designated official. If after consideration of all the
evidence, the governing body finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall,
by resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at
once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the
order to abate and remove the nuisance, the governing body may have such work
done.
   (C)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce nuisance violations as prescribed herein. Said
individual or organization appointed as the “Nuisance Officer” shall be
identified by resolution of the city.
      (1)   Identifying nuisances.
         (a)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
City Clerk, shall upon direction of the City Council, notify the Nuisance
Officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
         (b)   The city may request that the nuisance officer audit the city
for nuisances in the city as defined by the city code. The Nuisance Officer
shall then view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the
city. Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
      (2)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. Nuisance Officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state, or city law.
         (a)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
         (b)   Nuisance Officer shall then present this information to the city
governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a
nuisance exists.
      (3)   Enforcement procedures. The nuisance, health and/or sanitation
violation is brought to the governing body by the city Nuisance Officer, or the
Board of Health or upon the governing body's own action. The governing body
then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation.
The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by: (1) city
administration procedures; (2) penal prosecutions through the courts, and/or;
(3) by civil procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures, or any
combination of these procedures may be used to enforce the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation ordinances of the city.
         (a)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed:
            1.   After a nuisance is declared, the City Clerk notifies the
Nuisance Officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
            2.   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice which
shall describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (C)(3)(a)4. herein.
            3.   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner's duly
authorized agent and to the occupant, in any, by personal service or certified
mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said
notice shall be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the
notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and
removed. The date of service is determined by the later of certified mail
receipt, personal service, or publication date.
            4.   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in
writing a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after
notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations the
period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
            5.   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
            6.   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix date of
said hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail.
            7.   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the
agent, owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall
provide evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the
governing body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the
hearing or said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing
officer to conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney
or the Enforcement Officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the
notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence is not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
            8.   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of
the evidence, the governing body may by majority vote to rescind the resolution
of violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing body may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing body shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular US
Mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
            9.   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not
remedied and abated within the time period designated, the City may cause the
abatement of the nuisance.
            10.   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate
court the findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed
until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases
of appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or
as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial. (Neb.
RS 19-710)
         (b)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance,
health, and/or sanitation are not abated within 15 days that the notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the City Clerk has not received a
request for hearing, the Nuisance Officer may cause issue of a citation for the
code violation.
            1.   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by
the City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
            2.   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
            3.   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance
resolution and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to
a separate fine.
         (c)   Civil court procedure. The governing body may instruct by
resolution the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served,
and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
   (D)   Expenses.
      (1)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract
with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated at the
actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
      (2)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the
owner of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer's office by
regular US Mail.
      (3)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate
county in Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 1701, passed 9-19-1983; Ord. 2018-2965, passed 5-7-
2018; Ord. 2020-3002, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022; Ord.
2025-3101, passed 4-7-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 95.04 LAND BANK PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Problem Resolution Team shall identify nuisance properties within
the city that could be acquired by a land bank to design, develop, construct,
demolish, reconstruct, rehabilitate, renovate, relocate, or otherwise improve
the nuisance property.
   (B)   If the Problem Resolution Team determines that a nuisance property
should be acquired by a land bank, it shall present its determination to the
City Council. The City Council shall approve or deny the determination by
majority vote. Should the City Council vote to approve the determination, the
Problem Resolution Team shall make application to the land bank for the
nuisance property.
   (C)   The land bank shall draft a project agreement for each nuisance
property acquired within the city's boundaries. The project agreements shall be
presented to the City Council for approval by majority vote.
(Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022; Ord. 2025-3101, passed 4-7-2025)
§ 95.19 JURISDICTION.
   The City Manager and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce
this city code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of
Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the city within
two miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) (Ord. 2022-3057, passed 11-21-2022; Ord. 2025-3101,
passed 4-7-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-901, 18-1720
NOISE
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   All terminology used in this subchapter shall be consistent with applicable
American National Standards Institute Publications, such as S1.1 1960 (R-1971)
or S1.13 1971, or those from its successor publications or bodies. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured with a
sound level meter using the A weighting network. The standard notation is dB
(A).
   DECIBEL. A dimensionless measure of level when the base of the logarithm is
the tenth root of ten.
   DEVICE. Any mechanism which is intended to produce or which actually
produces audible sound when operated or handled.
   NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE. Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised
or normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
   PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line at the ground surface which separates
the real property owned by one person from that owned by another person and its
vertical extension.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, alley, premise,
or public conveyance which is owned or controlled by a public governmental
entity.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, output
meter, and weighting networks, for the measurement of sound pressure. The
output meter reads sound pressure level when properly calibrated and the
instrument is of Type 2 or better as specified in American National Standards
Institute Publication S1.4-1971.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. It is 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of the
ratio of the effective sound pressure to the reference pressure which is 20 x
10-6 Newtons/meter2. It is expressed in decibels (dB).
   STEADY SOUND. The sound pressure level of a steady sound remains essentially
consistent during the period of observation, i.e., it does not vary more than
six dB(A) when measured with the "slow" meter characteristic of a sound level
meter.
(Prior Code, § 4-601)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
§ 95.21 PROHIBITED NOISES.
   (A)   The making and creating of any excessive or unusually loud noise (or
any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, or safety of others) within the city as heard without
measurement or heard and measured in the manner prescribed herein is hereby
declared to be unlawful, except when made under and in compliance with a permit
issued as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   These noises include but are not limited to:
      (1)   (a)   Sounding of any horn or signaling device on any truck,
automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle, or other vehicle on any street or
public place of the city except as a danger warning signal;
         (b)   The creation of, by means of any signaling device, a sound in
excess of 90 dB(A) at 50 feet from the front of the vehicle; or
         (c)   The sounding of any signaling device for any unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   (a)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum, or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided in division (B)(3) below, in a manner as to cause noise disturbance;
and/or
         (b)   The operating of any device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
the following 7:00 a.m., in a manner as to be plainly audible at the property
boundary of the source or plainly audible through party walls within a building
or plainly audible at 50 feet from the device when operated within a vehicle
parked on a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Using or operating a loudspeaker or sound amplifying vehicle for
the purpose of commercial advertising, giving instructions, directions, talks,
addresses, lectures, or transmitting music to any persons or assemblages of
persons in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, or public property
without first obtaining a permit;
      (4)   Operating or causing to be used or operated any equipment used in
construction, repair, alteration or demolition work on buildings, structures,
streets, alleys, or appurtenances thereto, such as, but not limited to, pile
drivers, power shovels, hammer derricks, bulldozers, crawler-tractors, rotary
drills, augers, and pneumatic power equipment or other mechanical apparatus
powered by internal combustion engines or electricity which cause noise
disturbances without first obtaining a permit;
      (5)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying, or testing any truck, automobile,
motorcycle, or other motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause noise
disturbance;
      (6)   Operating any machinery, equipment, pump, fan, air conditioning
apparatus, or similar mechanical device so as to cause noise disturbance;
      (7)   Operating or permitting to be operated any loudspeaker or other
source of amplified sound in such a manner as to violate the permissible noise
exposures of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) for any
individual in any enclosed place of public entertainment;
      (8)   Operating or permitting the operation of any motor of a motor
vehicle in excess of 10,000 pounds, manufacturer's gross vehicle weight or any
attached auxiliary equipment, for a consecutive period longer than ten minutes
while such a vehicle is standing on a public right-of-way in a residential
district or in a quiet zone or is on private property in a residential district
or quiet zone and is not within a completely enclosed structure; and
      (9)   Creating any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise within
the vicinity of any school, hospital, institution of learning, court, or other
designated area where exceptional quiet is necessary, while the same are in
use, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating
that the same is a quiet zone.
(Prior Code, § 4-602)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
§ 95.22 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS.
   (A)   The maximum permissible sound pressure levels at the property line of
any source of sound located on private property shall be as herein provided.
This includes, but is not limited to, sound from such activities as production,
processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, operating, or repair of either
vehicles, materials, goods or products, or devices. Sound pressure levels in
excess of those established in Table I for the use districts and times herewith
listed shall constitute prima facie evidence that the noise is a noise
disturbance. All railroad rights-of-way shall be considered as heavy industrial
districts within the meaning of this division. Stationary or moving rail
vehicles shall comply with the provisions of this division except as provided
for in the United States Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-574). When
a noise source can be identified and its noise measured in more than one use
district, the sound pressure level limits of the most restrictive use district
shall apply, at that district boundary. For the purpose of this division, all
properly designated quiet zones shall have the maximum permissible sound
pressure limits as set forth for residential use districts.
 
TABLE I
Sound Pressure Level Limit
dB(A)
Use District                          Day                  Night
                                      7:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m.
Residential, Floodway, Selected       65                   60
Floodway
Central Business, Highway Commercial,
Business Commercial, Neighborhood     70                   65
Commercial
Light Industrial, Agricultural        80                   75
Heavy Industrial                      90                   85
 
   (B)   The maximum permissible sound pressure levels at the property line of
any steady source of sound located on private property shall be as herein
provided. This includes, but is not limited to, sound from such activities as
production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, operating, or repair of
either vehicles, materials, goods or products, or devices. Sound pressure
levels in excess of those established in Table II for the use districts and
times herewith listed shall constitute prima facie evidence that the noise is a
noise disturbance. All railroad rights-of-way shall be considered as heavy
industrial districts within the meaning of this division. Stationary or moving
rail vehicles shall comply with the provisions of this division except as
provided for in the United States Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-
574). When a noise source can be identified and its noise measured in more than
one use district, the sound pressure level limits of the most restrictive use
district shall apply at that district boundary. For the purposes of this
division, all properly designated quiet zones shall have the maximum
permissible steady sound pressure level limits as set forth for residential use
districts.
 
TABLE II 
Sound Pressure Level Limit
dB(A)
Use District                          Day                  Night
                                      7:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m.
Residential, Floodway, Selected       55                   50
Floodway
Central Business, Highway Commercial,
Business Commercial, Neighborhood     60                   55
Commercial
Light Industrial, Agricultural        70                   65
Heavy Industry                        80                   75
 
   (C)   The maximum permissible sound pressure level by motor vehicles moving
in a public right-of-way shall be as herein provided. This shall include all
vehicles, whether publicly or privately owned, that are licensed according to
the laws of the state. Sound pressure levels in excess of those established in
Table III herein shall constitute prima facie evidence that the sound is a
noise disturbance. The standard measurement height shall be five feet and the
measurement distance shall be 50 feet. This distance shall be that from the
center of the monitored traffic lane to the microphone. The maximum permissible
sound pressure levels for vehicles licensed for and operating in interstate
commerce shall be those established pursuant to the United States Noise Control
Act of 1972.
 
TABLE III
Vehicle Class                                                     dB(A)
                                                                  @ 50 feet
Any vehicles greater than 10,000 lb. Manufacturer's gross vehicle 88
weight prior to January 1, 1975
After January 1, 1975 and prior to January 1, 1980                84
After January 1, 1980                                             80
Any other motor vehicles                                          74
 
(Prior Code, § 4-603)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
§ 95.23 PERMIT FOR RELIEF FROM NOISE LEVEL DESIGNATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applications for a permit for relief from the noise level designated
in this subchapter on the basis of undue hardship may be made to the City
Manager or his or her duly authorized representative. Any permit granted by the
City Manager hereunder shall specify a reasonable time that the permit shall be
effective. The City Manager or his or her duly authorized representative may
grant the relief as applied for if he or she finds:
      (1)   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
his or her activity or operation to comply with this division;
      (2)   The activity, operation, or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this subsection;
and
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   (B)   The City Manager may prescribe any conditions or requirements he or
she deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 4-604)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
§ 95.24 EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES; TEMPORARY LICENSED OR PERMITTED
ACTIVITIES.
   The requirements, prohibitions, and terms of this subchapter shall not apply
to any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or
acting in time of emergency. The terms of this subchapter shall not apply to
those activities of a temporary duration, permitted by law, and for which a
license or permit therefore has been granted by the city, including, but not
limited to, parades and fireworks displays.
(Prior Code, § 4-605)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
NOXIOUS WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER
§ 95.35 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the
lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth
of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. Notice
shall be given by first-class mail or by personal service. If notice is given
by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by
the City Manager. The City Manager shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails,
the municipality may have such work done. Within five days after receipt of
such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals;
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk; and
         (f)   All specific nuisances listed in §
95.02 of this code.
      WEEDS.
         (a)   Includes, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
         (b)   WEEDS, GRASSES, AND WORTHLESS VEGETATION does not include
vegetation applied or grown on a lot or piece of ground outside the corporate
limits of the municipality but inside the municipality's extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction expressly for the purpose of weed or erosion control.
(Neb. RS 17-563, 26-230)
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 1876, passed 9-5-1989; Ord. 91-2010, passed 10-21-
1991; Ord. 95-2334, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 2004-2710, passed 10-4-2004; Ord.
2020-3002, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. 2024-3081, passed 7-15-2024)   Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1719
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in this section, the penalty for violation shall be in any
amount not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to
exceed three months, in the discretion of the court; provided, whenever any
section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section
shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-702)
   (C)   Any person, partnership, association or corporation violating §§
95.20 through
95.24 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100 for a
first offense, not less than $35 nor more than $300 for a subsequent offense,
and court costs; provided, however, that each offense or violation of those
sections shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-606)
   (D)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground in violation of §
95.35 shall, upon conviction of violating the section, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
(Ord. 1876, passed 9-5-1989; Ord. 91-2010, passed 10-21-1991; Ord. 95-2334,
passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 2004-2710, passed 10-4-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225, 16-227, 16-228, 18-1719, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 96: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Title
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Comprehensive street tree plan
   
96.04   Location, spacing of new trees on public property
   
96.05   Planting, maintenance, removal of trees on public property
   
96.06   Injury to trees prohibited
   
96.07   Topping trees on public property prohibited
   
96.08   Street and park tree stumps removed
Private Property
   
96.20   City pruning of overhanging trees on private property permitted
   
96.21   Removal of dead or diseased trees permitted
   
96.22   Dutch Elm disease deemed nuisance
   
96.23   Notice of Dutch Elm disease; service; hearing; costs of abatement
   
96.24   Costs assessed as property lien
   
96.25   Right of entry to enforce provisions
   
96.26   Appeal from order procedure
   
96.27   Right of city to collect costs not waived by penalty
   
96.28   Arborists license
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City Tree Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 4-501) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or any other person authorized by the City
Manager.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Public Works Director or any other person
authorized by the Director of Public Works.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other wood vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or any
other entity.
   PUBLIC STREET or STREET. All roads, streets, avenues, boulevards, alleys,
parkways, and other public rights-of-way, or any portion thereof, of the city.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other wood vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
   TREE SIZE.
      (1)   Small trees: less than 25 feet in height at maturity.
      (2)   Medium trees: 25 to 40 feet in height at maturity.
      (3)   Large trees: over 40 feet at maturity.
(Prior Code, § 4-502) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.03 COMPREHENSIVE STREET TREE PLAN.
   (A)   The Tree Advisory Board shall prepare and recommend, and the City
Council shall adopt by resolution, a comprehensive plan for the planting and
maintaining of trees within public streets of the city, which plan shall be
designated as the Comprehensive Street Tree Plan. The Plan shall include those
public streets identified under §
96.02 which, in the Board's judgement, bear a relationship to the purposes of
this chapter. The Plan shall be so prepared that all appropriate public streets
may be included in the Plan. The Plan shall consist of a written statement,
maps, and detailed designs as may be appropriate, setting forth or depicting
the following:
      (1)   The specific types of trees to be planted and maintained, including
their desirable spacing and location;
      (2)   The identification of those existing trees which should be
retained; and
      (3)   The identification of those trees which may constitute a hazard of
public nuisance, and which may require substantial maintenance or removal.
   (B) In preparing initial and subsequent versions of the Comprehensive Street
Tree Plan, the Board and City Council may limit the Plan's content to only that
information required under division (A) of this section. It is the intent of
this section that the Plan shall be developed gradually in recognition of the
practical problems associated with fulfilling all requirements of this section
within any specified period of time.
(Prior Code, § 4-503) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.04 LOCATION, SPACING OF NEW TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Spacing. No trees may be planted on public property closer together
than the following, except in special plantings described or approved by the
Tree Advisory Board:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
   (B)   Distance from curb or sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species
size classes. No trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following:
      (1)   Small trees: two feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: three feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: four feet.
   (C)   Distance from street intersections. No street trees or park trees
shall be planted within 35 feet of any street intersection, measured from the
point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines, or within 15 feet of any
driveway or alley. If no such curb or curbline exists, no tree shall be planted
within ten feet from the point of intersection of the property lines.
   (D)   Distance from utility wires, utility lines and fireplugs. No street
tree or park tree other than those species indicated as small trees may be
planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over
or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line or other utility line, wire or main. No street tree shall be
planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
   (E)   Arrangement of trees in sidewalk spaces. All trees permitted to be
planted in sidewalk spaces shall conform in line with the majority of trees
already planted in the blocks. If no trees are planted therein, the trees as
are permitted to be planted under this chapter shall be an equal distance from
the sidewalk and from the curb. Not more than two trees shall be planted in one
lot in the sidewalk space.
(Prior Code, § 4-504) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.05 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE, REMOVAL OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authority of Public Works Director. The Public Works Director or
authorized designee shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all street rights-of-way, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure
public safety. The Public Works Director or authorized designee may order any
property owner to trim, prune, or remove any tree, shrub, plant, or vegetation
within the lines of the street right-of-way or alley abutting upon the owner's
property, and failure to comply with the order after ten days' notice shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Dangerous trees. Any tree or shrub growing in a parking strip or any
public place or in private property, which is in danger or which in any way may
endanger the security or usefulness of any public street, sewer or sidewalk, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and the city may remove or trim the tree or
shrub or may require the property owner to remove or trim any tree or shrub on
private property or in a parking strip abutting upon the owner's property. The
City Manager or authorized representative shall give notice to abate and remove
the nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing and the manner in which it
may be requested to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the
occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. Within 30 days after
the receipt of the notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground does not request a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have the work done and may levy and
assess all or any portion of the costs and expense of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied or assessed.
   (C)   Removal of dead street trees. It is hereby declared a nuisance for any
property owner to permit, allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within
the right-of-way streets, within the corporate limits of the city and adjacent
to the property owner's property. The City Manager or authorized representative
shall give notice to abate and remove the nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested to each owner or owner's
duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or
certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of the notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have the
work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and expense
of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as
other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
   (D)   Planting of street trees by adjacent property owners. This section
does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners
providing that the selection and location of trees is in accordance with §
96.03.
(Prior Code, § 4-505) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-231, 18-1720
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248
§ 96.06 INJURY TO TREES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to abuse, destroy, or mutilate any
tree, shrub, or plant in a public parking strip or any other public place or to
attach or place any rope or wire, other than one used to support a young or
broken tree, sign, poster, handbill, or other thing on a tree growing in a
public place or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to come
into contact with any trees or to allow any gases, liquid, or solid substance
which is harmful to trees to come into contact with the roots or leaves of the
trees.
(Prior Code, § 4-506) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248
§ 96.07 TOPPING TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to top any street tree, park tree, or
other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of
limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to
such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the trees. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may
be exempted from this section at the determination of the Tree Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-507) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 STREET AND PARK TREE STUMPS REMOVED.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-510) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 96.20 CITY PRUNING OF OVERHANGING TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PERMITTED.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from any streetlamp or obstruct the light of any street intersection and so
that there shall be a clear space of 16 feet above the surface of the street or
eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk. The owner shall remove all dead,
diseased, or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The Public Works Director or authorized
designee shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or
sign.
(Prior Code, § 4-508) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.21 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES PERMITTED.
   The Public Works Director or authorized designee shall have the right to
cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
city when the trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects
or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city.
The Public Works Director shall notify in writing the owners of the trees.
Removal shall be done by the owners, at their own expense, within 90 days after
the date of service of the notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply
with the provisions of the notice, the Public Works Director or authorized
designee shall have the authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of
removal as a special assessment on the owner's property.
(Prior Code, § 4-509) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.22 DUTCH ELM DISEASE DEEMED NUISANCE.
   (A)   Trees of all species and varieties of elm, zelkova, and planera
infected with the fungus Ceratostomella Ulmi, as determined by laboratory
analysis, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed and
burned.
   (B)   Trees, or parts thereof, of elm, zelkova, or planera in a dead or
dying condition that may serve as breeding places for the European Elm Bark
Beetle, Scolytus Multistriatus, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
shall be removed and burned.
(Prior Code, § 4-511) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 18-1720
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248
§ 96.23 NOTICE OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE; SERVICE; HEARING; COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   If trees on private property are found to be infected or in a dead or dying
condition, the City Manager or authorized designee shall give to the owner of
the premises where the same are situated written notice of the existence of the
disease or of the dead or dying condition of the trees or parts thereof and
require the removal and burning of the same under the direction and supervision
of the Public Works Director or his or her authorized representative. The City
Manager or authorized representative shall give notice to abate and remove the
nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing and the manner in which it may be
requested to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant,
if any, by personal service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt
of the notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the city may have the work done and may levy and assess all or any
portion of the costs and expense of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-512) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
§ 96.24 COSTS ASSESSED AS PROPERTY LIEN.
   The Public Works Director shall regularly report the costs to the City
Council, whereupon the City Council shall, at a regular Council meeting, by
resolution, assess the costs, together with any assessment expenses, against
the real estate, provided that notice of the time of the meeting of the City
Council shall be given in the manner provided by law. When the assessment has
been made, it shall be certified by the City Clerk and delivered to the County
Treasurer and shall be collected in the manner provided by law. The assessment
shall be a lien upon the real estate from the date of assessment and shall draw
interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date until paid.
(Prior Code, § 4-513) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-231, 18-1720
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248
§ 96.25 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   The City Manager or duly authorized representative is charged with
enforcement of this chapter and to that end may enter upon private property at
all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspecting trees thereon and may
remove specimens as are required for purposes of analysis to determine whether
or not the same are infected. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent
the City Manager or the authorized representative from entering on private
property for purposes of carrying out his or her duties hereunder or to
interfere with the City Manager in the lawful performance of his or her duties
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-514) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-231
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248, 16-253
§ 96.26 APPEAL FROM ORDER PROCEDURE.
   Appeals from orders made by the City Manager or the duly authorized
representatives pursuant to this chapter may be made by filing written notice
thereof with the City Clerk within ten days after the order is received,
stating in substance that appeal is being made to the order to the City
Council. The City Clerk shall thereupon call the appeal to the attention of the
City Council at the next regular succeeding meeting, at which meeting the
appellant and the City Manager may present evidence. Action taken by the City
Council on the appeal at the hearing shall be conclusive
(Prior Code, § 4-515) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-231
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248, 16-253
§ 96.27 RIGHT OF CITY TO COLLECT COSTS NOT WAIVED BY PENALTY.
   Imposition of any penalty for a violation of this chapter shall not be
construed as a waiver of the right of the city to collect the costs of removal
or trimming of the tree in accordance with the provisions of this chapter where
it is necessary for the city to remove or trim the tree in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-516) (Ord. 2003-2660, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2012-2872, passed
6-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-207, 16-231
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-248, 16-253
§ 96.28 ARBORISTS LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning or removing trees within the municipality without first
applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be $75 annually and
shall be effective from May 1 to April 30 of each year, and such fee shall not
be prorated; provided, however, that no license shall be required of any public
service company or municipal employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant
shall furnish the City Clerk a certificate or certificates of insurance showing
possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $500,000 per
occurrence for bodily injury and $500,000 per occurrence for property damage.
The city shall be listed as an additional insured. Any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be revoked should the applicant permit the
insurance policy herein required to expire or lapse.
(Ord. 2012-2872, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2012-2872, passed 6-4-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   (RESERVED)
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
113.   TRAILER CAMPS AND CAMPING AREAS
         
114.   TELEPHONE COMPANIES
         
115.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
         
116.   OIL AND NATURAL GAS
         
117.   LOTTERY REGULATIONS
         
118.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
119.   HOTEL COMPANIES OCCUPATION TAX
         
120.   SIDEWALK CAFÉS
CHAPTER 110: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Hours of sale
Cross-reference:
   Liquor sales occupation tax rates, see
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule
§ 111.01 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages with the municipality except
during the hours provided herein:
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular days
      Off6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays
      Off12:00 p.m. to 1.00 a.m.
      On 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and wine
   Secular days
      Off6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays
      Off6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises. For the
purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold
by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed establishment; OFF
SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original
container for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 2006-2784, passed 12-4-2006; Ord. 2017-2950,
passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Registration permit required
   
112.04   Exemptions from chapter
   
112.05   Application
   
112.06   Investigation and issuance
   
112.07   Fees
   
112.08   Sales; restrictions
   
112.09   Registration permit; contents
   
112.10   Registration permit; to be carried and exhibited
   
112.11   Registration permit; to be posted
   
112.12   Registration permit; not transferable
   
112.13   Permittee; further requirements
   
112.14   Registration permit; revocation
   
112.15   Registration permit; appeal of denial, revocation
   
112.16   Registration permit; interstate commerce effect of chapter
   
112.17   Sales; police enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent fraud and other crimes, to protect
citizens of the city from undue invasions of privacy, from undue annoyance and
harassment, and to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of residents of the
city, by means of regulation of itinerant and transient merchants, peddlers,
and solicitors.
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Includes the terms "transient merchant, "transient
vendor," and "itinerant vendor" and means any person, firm or corporation who
or which shall engage in, do or  transact any temporary or transient business
in the city, either in one locality or location or in traveling from place to
place in the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, and who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, shall hire, lease, use or occupy any building or
structure, motor vehicle, tent, car, boat or public room or any part thereof,
including rooms in hotels, lodging houses, or houses of private entertainment,
or any private or vacant lot or property for a period of less than one year,
for the exhibition or sale of such goods, wares or merchandise. This definition
shall include principals and their agents and employees, and persons forming
partnerships. No person shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter by
reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader or merchant, or
by reason of conducting such temporary or transient business in connection with
or as part of the business in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer, unless the transient merchant is engaging in sales on property
owned by and adjacent to a local merchant under the terms of an agreement
whereby the local merchant is compensated for the use of his property according
to a percentage of sales by the itinerant merchant.
   PEDDLER. Any person who shall carry from place to place any goods, wares or
merchandise and offer to sell or barter the same, or actually sell or barter
the same. All such persons who do not keep a regular place of business, whether
it be a house or a vacant lot or elsewhere, open at all times in regular
business hours and at the same place, who shall offer for sale goods, wares and
merchandise, shall be deemed peddlers under this chapter. All persons who keep
a regular place of business, open at all times in regular business hours and at
the same place, who shall, elsewhere than at such regular place of business,
personally or through their agents, offer for sale or sell and, at the time of
such offering for sale, deliver goods, wares and merchandise, shall also be
deemed peddlers as above, but this Section shall not apply to those who sell or
offer for sale in person, any item set forth in §
112.04. This chapter shall not include any peddler who sells to permitted
dealers or retailers only, but shall apply to any person who solicits orders
and, as a separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers as part of a
scheme or design to evade the provisions of this chapter.
   SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance from house to house
or from street to street, or operating from a fixed location on or near a
street or house not owned by that person, taking or attempting to take orders
for the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, subscriptions or personal property
of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished
or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or
exposes for sale a sample of such sale or whether he or she is collecting
advance payments on such sale or not; or soliciting money or anything of value
on behalf of himself or herself, or another, whether or not in exchange for
goods, wares or merchandise.
§ 112.03 REGISTRATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor,
other than a solicitor doing business by appointment, to engage in any such
business within the city without first obtaining and possessing a valid
registration permit therefore in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. In addition to the permit required under this section, any person who
shall sell edible products must also obtain the applicable food license or
health permit under the provisions of state law. No permit shall be issued by
the city without such proof being presented at the time application is made to
the City Clerk for an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor permit.
   (B)   A permit issued under this chapter shall not be used or represented in
any manner as an endorsement by the city or by any department, officer or
employee thereof.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to, nor shall the terms
peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant be construed to include, the
following:
   (A)   Persons, including farmers or farmers' cooperative associations,
selling, offering for sale or soliciting orders for the following items grown
or produced by them and not purchased by them for sale: newspapers, firewood,
Christmas trees, vegetables, or fruits; provided, that a dairy who uses on the
streets of the city one or more delivery trucks or vehicles, may sell and
deliver from its trucks, or vehicles, milk, butter, cream and eggs, dairy
products, and frozen food products on customer subscribed routes.
   (B)   Persons soliciting on behalf of a candidate for public office or on
behalf of a political party.
   (C)   Salesman or agents for wholesale houses or firms who solicit orders
from, or sell to, retail dealers in the county for resale or other commercial
purposes or to manufacturers for manufacturing or other commercial purposes.
   (D)   Sales to wholesale or retail merchants, by sample, for future delivery
made by representatives of established wholesalers or manufacturers.
   (E)   A manufacturer taxable on intangible property by the state who peddles
the goods, wares or merchandise manufactured by him at the plant, the
intangible property of which is taxed by the state and who peddles no other
goods, wares or merchandise.
   (F)   Yard sales conducted on residentially zoned property.
   (G)   The distribution of goods for which there is no charge.
   (H)   Persons giving, selling or offering for sale goods, wares or
merchandise, or soliciting orders for sale of same who qualify as bona fide
nonprofit organizations under Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code or
which are organized and operated exclusively for nonprofit, religious,
charitable, educational or civic purposes or where persons selling or offering
for sale goods, wares or merchandise, or soliciting orders for sale of the same
do so in an event held exclusively for nonprofit, religious, charitable,
educational or civic purposes.
§ 112.05 APPLICATION.
   At the time of application, applicants for a registration permit shall
present a valid driver's permit or other acceptable form of identification and
file with the City Clerk a written sworn application signed by the applicant
showing the following:
   (A)   The local and permanent address and phone number of the applicant.
   (B)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on the
applicant's business and the length of time which it is proposed such business
shall be conducted.
   (C)   The identification of any automotive vehicle being used.
   (D)   A statement of the nature of the merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant.
   (E)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual, partnership,
firm, or corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any.
   (F)   A disclaimer of city liability relating to any action caused or
charged against the applicant.
   (G)   Such other relevant information as may be required for the
investigation of the applicant.
   (H)   The applicant's state sales tax permit number and Federal tax
identification number.
§ 112.06 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, a copy shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall cause within three work days after the receipt
thereof such an investigation of the applicant to the extent permitted by law
and facilities, and, if applicable, the individual, partnership, firm or
corporation who the applicant is representing, to be made as he or she deems
necessary for the protection of the public good. If, as a result of such
investigation, the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to
be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on such application his or
her disapproval and his or her reasons for the same, and return the said
application to the City Clerk, who shall notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Similarly, if the
business responsibility of the individual, partnership, firm or corporation who
the applicant is representing is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for
the same, and return the said application to the City Clerk, who shall notify
the applicant that his/her application is disapproved and that no permit will
be issued.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted of or who is currently under indictment for
a felony, or a crime involving moral turpitude within ten years preceding the
date of the filing of such application with the City Clerk.
      (2)   Who is under the age of 16.
      (3)   Whose permit has previously been revoked for one of the following:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in
the application for a permit.
         (b)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in
connection with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise.
         (c)   Any violation of this chapter and its stipulations contained
within.
         (d)   Conviction of the permittee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
         (e)   Conducting the business permitted under this chapter in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to threaten the health, safety, or
general welfare of the public.
   (C)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant and, if applicable, the individual,
partnership, firm or corporation the applicant is representing, are found to be
satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on the application the approval
and return the application to the City Clerk, who shall notify the applicant
that his/her application has been approved.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 FEES.
   The daily and/or annual registration permit fee for each itinerant merchant,
peddler, or solicitor shall be as set forth in the city comprehensive fee
schedule per day per person, and/or annually per person, for the calendar year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31; the annual fee shall not be pro-
rated.
§ 112.08 SALES; RESTRICTIONS.
   All solicitations to private residences, including but not limited to homes,
residences, rooming houses, duplexes, and apartments shall occur only between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., unless otherwise posted and prohibited by
the private property owner or by someone with apparent authority to act for the
owner. This regulation does not apply where the solicitor is on the property by
the express, prior invitation of the person residing on the premises. A person
engaged in solicitation shall not:
   (A)   Make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that
person's permission is obtained.
   (B)   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation.
   (C)   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation.
   (D)   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he or she does not wish to give anything to or buy
anything from that solicitor.
   (E)   Represent the issuance of any permit or registration under this
chapter as an endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation.
   (F)   Enter upon any private premises when the same is posted with a sign
stating: "No Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitation" or other words to that
effect.
   (G)   Block, obstruct, or unduly hinder passage on public sidewalks or
passageways. For the purposes of this chapter, the judgment of a police
officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether an
area is blocked, obstructed, passage is hindered, or the public is impeded or
inconvenienced.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 REGISTRATION PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   A permit issued under this chapter shall contain a permit number, the name
of the permit holder, the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the name of the
employer, if any, the date of issuance, the date of expiration, a listing of
the places which the applicant has identified as the place or places at which
he or she intends to do business, and the signature of the Chief of Police or
his or her authorized agent. Every permit shall set out the prohibition of
nighttime solicitation set forth in §
112.08.
§ 112.10 REGISTRATION PERMIT; TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED.
   Every peddler and solicitor or itinerant merchant shall carry the permit
issued to him or her under this chapter on his or her person at all times while
engaged in selling, peddling or soliciting in the city. It shall also be the
duty of every peddler and solicitor to exhibit such permit when requested so to
do by any law enforcement officer or other department personnel designated by
the Chief of Police, or any person with whom the peddler, solicitor or
itinerant merchant attempts to do business.
§ 112.11 REGISTRATION PERMIT; TO BE POSTED.
   (A)   The permit to the permittee hereunder by the City Clerk shall be
posted in a conspicuous place if the permittee is using a vehicle or a building
in his/her business and otherwise must be kept by the person and exhibited at
any time upon request.
   (B)   Any person who shall exercise the vocation of an itinerant merchant,
peddler or solicitor shall display the permit, and permit expiration date
issued by the City Clerk. Transient merchants shall post conspicuously in their
place of business the permit issued hereunder, which permit shall be shown at
the request of any citizen or law enforcement officer.
§ 112.12 REGISTRATION PERMIT; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Each peddler, solicitor, or itinerant merchant must secure a personal
permit. No permit shall be used at any time by any person other than the person
to whom it is issued.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 PERMITTEE; FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No itinerant merchant shall advertise, represent or hold any sale as
an insurer, bankrupt, insolvent, assignee, trustee, estate, executor,
administrator, receiver, wholesaler or manufacturer's closing out sale, or as a
sale of any goods damaged by smoke, fire, wreck, water, or otherwise, or in any
similar form, unless he or she shall have first so stated under oath before the
Chief of Police or his or her designee, either in the application form required
hereunder, or in a supplementary application subsequently filed and copied on
the permit, all the facts relating to the reasons and character of such sale so
advertised or represented; including a statement of the names of the persons
from whom the goods, wares or merchandise were obtained, the date of delivery
to the person applying for the permit, and the place from which such goods,
wares, and merchandise were last taken, and all details necessary to locate
exactly and fully identify all goods, wares and merchandise to be so sold.
   (B)   Any false statement in an application, either original or
supplementary, under this section, and any failure on the part of the permittee
to comply with all requirements of this section, shall subject such itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor to the same penalty as if he or she had no
permit.
   (C)   No itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall conduct business or
sales upon or from any public property, including but not limited to, public
streets including right-of-way, sidewalks, alleys, drives, parking lots, parks,
unless authorized by the City Council in accordance with the terms of Neb. RS
19-4301.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 REGISTRATION PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   Permits issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the City Manager,
after notice has been issued. The notice shall include the City Manager's
reasoning for such revocation. Notice shall be sent by registered mail, postage
prepaid, to the permittee at his or her last known permanent address.
§ 112.15 REGISTRATION PERMIT; APPEAL OF DENIAL, REVOCATION.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Manager in regard to the
denial of an application for a permit under this chapter or in connection with
the revocation of a permit shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known permanent
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Council
shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such
hearing shall be sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the permittee at
his or her last known permanent address. The order of the Council on such
appeal shall be final.
§ 112.16 REGISTRATION PERMIT; INTERSTATE COMMERCE EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or enforced so as to be in
derogation of interstate commerce.
§ 112.17 SALES; POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to examine all places of business
and persons subject to the provisions of this chapter and to enforce the
provisions herein against any person found to be violating the same.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99. Each distinct act or violation of the terms of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 113: TRAILER CAMPS AND CAMPING AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Location of trailers; zoning requirements
   
113.03   Authorized camping permit; exceptions
Requirements and Regulations
   
113.30   Grading and drainage
   
113.31   Driveways and access
   
113.32   Toilet and service building location
   
113.33   Electrical outlets
   
113.34   Adequate water supply
   
113.35   Requirements for service building
   
113.36   Waste and garbage disposal provisions
   
113.37   Office
   
113.38   Camp manager; register of guests
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH and TRAILER. Any vehicle designed and
constructed in such manner as will permit the occupancy thereof as sleeping
quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation or trade (or use as a selling or advertising device), and so
designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power,
excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   CAMPING AREA. Any park, court, camp, place, area, or tract of land upon
which are located, or which is designed, maintained or intended for the purpose
of supplying location or accommodations for two or more camping parties using
or erecting for use, tent or camping outfit, for living or sleeping purposes,
by day, week, or month, whether a charge is made therefor or not, and having a
common use of any part thereof or any convenience thereon.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, camp, site, lot,
parcel, or tract of land designated, maintained, or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any trailer coach or trailer coaches
and upon which any trailer coach or trailer coaches are parked and shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof
whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer camp and its facilities or
not. TRAILER CAMP shall not include automobile or trailer sales lots on which
unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   UNIT. A section of ground for the location of one automobile and one trailer
or one automobile and one camping outfit. Trailer camp spaces shall be not less
than 800 square feet and camping spaces shall be not less than 400 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 113.02 LOCATION OF TRAILERS; ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer on any
street, alley, highway, or other public place, or on any tract of land owned by
any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city, except as provided in this
chapter.
      (2)    Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any
street, alley, or highway for not longer than one and one-half hours, subject
to any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by
the traffic and parking regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or
highway.
      (3)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any
occupied dwelling, or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling, either of which is situated outside an approved trailer
camp, except, the parking of only one unoccupied trailer in an accessory
private garage building or in a rear yard in any district is permitted,
provided, that no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced
in the trailer while the trailer is so parked or stored. The City Council may
by resolution permit limited business practices in a trailer for a period not
to exceed six months if the building in which the business was located is
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or public enemy to the extent that
utilization of a trailer is necessary. Notwithstanding the above, a trailer
coach or motor home shall be allowed to park on the front driveways of
residences from April 1 to November 1 as long as it does not create a safety
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 10-702)
   (B)   (1)   No trailer camp or camping area shall be located in any
residential zone or any other zone save and except where the zoning ordinance
is complied with.
      (2)   No trailer camp or camping area shall be located within the city
unless city water and sewer connections and fire protection facilities are
available.
      (3)   No occupied trailer shall be located within the city within the
recognized setback line for the zoning district in which the trailer is located
not less than ten feet from any other building or vehicle or the boundary line
of the tract on which the trailer is located.
(Prior Code, § 10-706)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.03 AUTHORIZED CAMPING PERMIT; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp upon land or premises within the
city, except at a duly registered and approved camping area, without first
having secured permission to do so from the City Council. Application for
permission shall be made in writing to the City Clerk, accompanied by written
permission from the owner of the property upon which the person proposes to
camp. The granting of permission shall be discretionary with the City Council,
taking into consideration the location of the premises, available sanitary
facilities, and the general welfare and safety of the public, and permission to
camp shall be for a limited period of time and may be revoked at the will of
the Council. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a person to camp
upon land or premises owned or controlled by him or her unless a permit to do
so shall have been issued by the City Council. This section shall not apply to
persons who erect a tent in the rear yard space for a period of not more than
seven days for the use of family members who reside at the address where the
tent is erected.
(Prior Code, § 10-711) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.30 GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   Every trailer camp and camping area shall be located on a well-drained area,
and the premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of
storm or other waters.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.31 DRIVEWAYS AND ACCESS.
   Units shall be clearly designated and the camp so arranged that all units
shall face or abut on a driveway of not less than 16 feet in width, giving easy
access from all units to a public street. The driveway shall be at least
graveled or cindered and maintained in good condition, having proper drainage
into the city's drainage system, be well lighted at night, and shall not be
obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.32 TOILET AND SERVICE BUILDING LOCATION.
   Trailer camps and camping areas shall be so laid out that no unit shall be
located farther than 200 feet from the toilets and service buildings provided
for by this chapter, and walkways to the buildings shall be at least graveled
or cindered and welt lighted at night.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.33 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS.
   Every trailer unit shall be furnished with an electric service outlet. The
outlet shall be equipped with an externally operated fused switch of not less
than 30 amperes capacity, and a heavy duty outlet receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.34 ADEQUATE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe
distribution system connected directly with the city water main, with supply
faucets located not more than 200 feet from any trailer shall be furnished for
drinking and domestic purposes in all trailer camps and camping areas.
   (B)   An abundant supply of hot water shall be provided in trailer camps and
camping areas at all times for bathing facilities.
   (C)   No common drinking vessels shall be permitted in trailer camps or
camping areas, nor shall any drinking water faucets be placed in any toilet
room or water closet compartment.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.35 REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE BUILDING.
   (A)   Every trailer camp or camping area shall have erected thereon, at a
distance not greater than 200 feet from any unit it is designed to serve, a
suitable building for housing toilets and shower facilities as required by this
chapter, to be known as the "service building."
   (B)   There shall be provided separate toilet rooms for each sex. Flush
toilets provided with an adequate water supply shall be enclosed in separate
compartments and shall be provided for each sex in the ration of one toilet for
each eight units or fraction thereof. Every male toilet room shall have one
urinal for each 16 units, but in no case shall any male toilet be without one
urinal. Toilet rooms shall contain lavatories with hot and cold water in the
ratio of one lavatory to every two or less water closets.
   (C)   Separate bathing facilities for each sex shall be provided with one
shower enclosed in a compartment for each eight units or fraction thereof. Each
shower compartment shall be supplemented by an individual dressing compartment.
   (D)   The above accommodations shall be based on the total camp capacity
according to accepted plans.
   (E)   Floors of toilets and showers shall be of concrete, tile or similar
material impervious to water and easily cleaned and pitched to a floor drain.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.36 WASTE AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All waste from showers, toilets, faucets, and lavatories shall be
wasted into a sewer system extended from and connected with the city sewer
system.
   (B)   All sanitary facilities in any trailer which are not connected with
the city sewer system by means of rigid pipe connections shall be sealed and
their use is hereby declared unlawful.
   (C)   Each faucet site shall be equipped with facilities for drainage of
waste and excess water into the sewer. In no case shall any waste water be
thrown or discharged upon the surface of the ground, or disposed of by means
other than as herein provided.
   (D)   Every unit shall be provided with a substantial flytight metal garbage
depository from which the contents shall be removed by a garbage collection
service.
(Prior Code, § 10-707) Penalty, §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.37 OFFICE.
   In every trailer camp and camping area there shall be an office building in
which shall be located the office of the person in charge of the camp. A copy
of the camp license and of this chapter shall be posted therein and the camp
register shall at all times be kept in the office.
(Prior Code, § 10-708) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 113.38 CAMP MANAGER; REGISTER OF GUESTS.
   It is the duty of the attendant or person in charge of a trailer camp or
camping area, together with the licensee, to:
   (A)   Keep at all times a register of all guests, which shall be open at all
times to inspection by state and federal officers and officers of the city,
showing for all guests:
      (1)   Names and addresses;
      (2)   Dates of entrance and departure;
      (3)   License numbers of all trailers and towing or other automobiles;
      (4)   States issuing the licenses; and
      (5)   Place of last location, and length of stay.
   (B)   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times;
   (C)   See that the provisions of this chapter are complied with and enforced
and report promptly to the proper authorities any violation of this chapter or
any other violations of law which may come to his or her attention;
   (D)   Report to the City Physician all cases of persons or animals affected
or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease;
   (E)   Prevent the running loose of dogs, cats, or other animals or pets;
   (F)   Maintain in convenient places approved by the Fire Department, hand
fire extinguishers in the ratio of one to each eight units;
   (G)   Prohibit the lighting of open fires on the premises; and
   (H)   Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants than
that which it is designed to accommodate.
(Prior Code, § 10-709) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
CHAPTER 114: TELEPHONE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Occupation tax imposed; exceptions
   
114.02   Schedule of payments
   
114.03   Payment and receipt
   
114.04   Delinquent taxes; interest and penalty
   
114.05   Statement of gross receipts filing
   
114.06   Payment adjustment
   
114.07   Right to inspect books and records
   
114.08   Failure to file statement; amount due
   
114.09   Right to sue for payment failure
§ 114.01 OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED; EXCEPTIONS.
   All telephone companies doing business in the city are required to pay an
occupation tax to the city in an amount equal to 1½% of the gross receipts from
the legally established basic monthly charges collected for local exchange
telephone service to subscribers within the city. There shall be excepted from
the provisions of this chapter all receipts for telephone service to the United
States government or any of its departments, and all receipts from the state or
any of its departments, and no part or portion of the tax provided for in this
chapter shall be levied upon or assessed against or taken from the United
States government, the government of the state or any of either of their
departments.
(Prior Code, § 10-1101) (Ord. 2012-2887, passed 12-3-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.02 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS.
   The payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be
in quarterly payments, using the calendar quarter year as a basis for
determining and computing the amount of tax payable. Each quarterly payment
shall be due 45 days after the termination of each calendar quarter year.
(Prior Code, § 10-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.03 PAYMENT AND RECEIPT.
   The occupation tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the City
Clerk at the time provided by this chapter, and he or she shall issue and
deliver his or her receipt therefor upon the payment thereof, and the amount of
payment shall be credited by the City Clerk to the general fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-1103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.04 DELINQUENT TAXES; INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   All payments of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this chapter which are
made after the due date thereof shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month
and, after payment thereof has been in default for six months, a penalty of 5%
shall be added thereto in addition to the interest charges, which shall be paid
by any company subject to this occupation tax.
(Prior Code, § 10-1104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.05 STATEMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS FILING.
   All telephone companies shall, at the time they make their quarterly
payments of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this chapter, file with the
City Clerk a full, complete and detailed statement of the gross receipts
subject to the occupation tax, which statement shall be duly verified and sworn
to by the manager in charge of the business of the particular company in the
city or by a higher managerial employee of the company.
(Prior Code, § 10-1105)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.06 PAYMENT ADJUSTMENT.
   Each succeeding quarterly payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to
this chapter may include any adjustment which is shown on the report provided
for by §
114.05, which may be necessary for the consideration of uncollectibles or any
other matters which may have resulted in either an excess or a deficiency in
the amount of tax paid in any previous quarter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.07 RIGHT TO INSPECT BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The city shall have the right at any time to inspect, through its officers,
agents, or representatives, the books and records of any telephone company, for
the purpose of verifying any report submitted pursuant to the requirements of §
114.05.
(Prior Code, § 10-1107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.08 FAILURE TO FILE STATEMENT; AMOUNT DUE.
   In case any telephone company shall refuse, fail, or neglect to furnish or
file any report required in §
114.05 at the time required for the filing, or shall fail or refuse to permit
the city to inspect the books and records of the company for the purpose of
verifying the report, then the occupation tax for the preceding quarter shall
be the sum of $5,000, and the amount shall be paid within 45 days following the
end of the calendar quarter as required by §
114.02 and the amount shall draw interest and be subject to penalties as
provided by §
114.04.
(Prior Code, § 10-1108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.09 RIGHT TO SUE FOR PAYMENT FAILURE.
   When any telephone company shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax
provided for by this chapter at the time specified for payment, the city shall
have the right to sue the company in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the amount of the occupation tax due and payable under the terms and provisions
of this chapter and may recover judgment against the company for the amount so
due, together with interest and penalties, and may have execution thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10-1109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-205
CHAPTER 115: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
115.01   Collection by private firms
§ 115.01 COLLECTION BY PRIVATE FIRMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or participate in the
removal of garbage for a fee until and unless the person has received a license
from the governing body. Application for a license may be made at the office of
the City Clerk upon a blank form supplied by the municipality. The application
shall require all information and documents which the governing body deems
necessary to determine whether or not to grant a license. If the governing body
decides to grant the license, the City Clerk will issue to the applicant the
license which will entitle him or her to collect, remove, and transport any
garbage from commercial or industrial accounts for a fee in, over, or upon any
street or public way in the municipality. No private firm shall collect from
residential accounts within the municipality. Any license so issued shall be
subject to revocation by the governing body after proper notice and a hearing
if requested by the licensee. The licensee shall be liable for all bonds
required by the governing body and shall pay the occupation as set by Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10-1001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2105
CHAPTER 116: OIL AND NATURAL GAS
Section
   
116.01   Licenses; permits; fees
   
116.02   Requirements for permit
   
116.03   Wells prohibited in streets and alleys
   
116.04   Proximity to residence and public building prohibited
   
116.05   Facilities screened from view required
   
116.06   Best available technology and methods required
§ 116.01 LICENSES; PERMITS; FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drill or
commence operations for the drilling of an oil or gas well or to operate the
same within the city limits without having first obtained from the governing
body one of the following licenses or permits.
   (A)   Before commencing the drilling of an oil and gas well within the city,
the person, firm, or corporation desiring to drill a well shall first obtain a
permit from the city. The applicant shall, at the time of making application
for the drilling permit, deposit with the City Clerk a fee as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule, payable to the city. If the city grants the
application, the fee shall be retained by the city. If a license is not
granted, the city shall retain the sum as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule for administrative expenses and the balance of the fee
shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   No permit or renewal permit shall be assigned or transferred to any
other person, firm, or corporation unless a notice of transfer is filed with
the city, giving the name of the assignee. A fee as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule shall accompany the notice of transfer. No transfer
shall be complete until all of the requirements of this section shall have been
met.
   (C)   The permit for any well that has been determined to be a dry well by
the permitter is terminated upon determination. The permittee shall furnish the
city with the information. If any well that has been determined to be a dry
well is reworked, reopened, or work done to make it a producing well, the owner
of the well shall first obtain an original permit for drilling a well before
commencing the rework, reopening or any similar activity.
   (D)   All persons, firms, or corporations having obtained a license for oil
or gas wells within the city, which wells are producing oil or gas, shall pay
an annual license renewal fee as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule per each well which continues to produce oil or gas at
any time during the calendar year. The fee shall be due and payable by December
31 of each year and shall be paid to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-1701) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   No such permit shall be granted by the governing body until the applicant
therefor shall have submitted satisfactory evidence as follows:
   (A)   A map or plat of the area covered by the oil and gas lease, showing
the proposed location of the well, together with the copies of the oil and gas
leases from the owner or owners of the land on which the well is proposed to be
located. The map or plat shall also show the location of all residences,
buildings and other structures in the immediate vicinity of the proposed
location;
   (B)   The application must agree to provide protection to all persons who
might be affected by the drilling operations, including the handling of slush,
drilling mud, sediments, salt water, and other material produced in connection
with drilling the well. An artificial liner shall be placed in all pits
receiving oil, salt water or refuse accumulated during drilling operations. Any
fluids remaining in the pits shall be removed immediately upon completion of
drilling operations;
   (C)   The application shall agree that no crude oil shall be stored within
the city limits unless agreed to in writing by all parties involved including
the applicant, the property owner, the city, and the owners of existing
buildings located within 200 feet of the storage site;
   (D)   The applicant shall agree that, in the event the well is
nonproductive, all tools, equipment, and machinery used in connection with the
drilling thereof shall be removed within 60 days after completion thereof, and
the premises restored to its original condition;
   (E)   Any tank or tank battery for storage of oil within the city shall be
protected by dikes of sufficient height to prevent oil from escaping in the
event of the leaking or bursting of the tanks;
   (F)   A copy of the notice of intent to drill filed with the state Oil and
Gas Conservation Commission on its Form 2; and
   (G)   Evidence of formal approval by the owners of the proposed location if
required by the terms of the lease or leases. This shall specifically include
the City Council in any instance where the lease so provides the city with the
right to approve the location in advance.
(Prior Code, § 10-1702)
§ 116.03 WELLS PROHIBITED IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No well shall be drilled, and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location within any of the streets or alleys of the city. No
street or alley shall be blocked or closed by any drilling or production
operation except upon the prior express written consent of the City Manager for
a specified temporary period.
(Prior Code, § 10-1703) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 PROXIMITY TO RESIDENCE AND PUBLIC BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   No well shall be drilled, nor shall any tank batteries, well facilities, or
equipment be located, and no permit shall be issued, for any well to be drilled
at any location which is nearer than 200 feet to any occupied or unoccupied
dwelling or any other building used or designed and intended to be used for
human occupancy, or any school, church, or public building, unless the
applicant has obtained written permission for the location of the well from all
owners and lessees whose dwelling or other subject buildings are within 200
feet of the proposed well. This distance shall be calculated from the well
bore, tank batteries, well facilities, and equipment to the closest exterior
point of the dwelling or other subject building.
(Prior Code, § 10-1704) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05 FACILITIES SCREENED FROM VIEW REQUIRED.
   All exploration or development facilities within the city shall be
surrounded by a sight-proof fence sufficiently high and properly built to keep
persons and animals out of the enclosure. All gates shall be kept locked when
authorized persons are not within the enclosure. Any producing well within 200
feet of an occupied dwelling, church, school, or government office shall
install evergreen vegetation or landscaped earth beams completely around the
well site, equipment, and fences of sufficient height to screen all structures
from view. The vegetation on beams shall be kept in good condition and in an
attractive state at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-1705) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06 BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGY AND METHODS REQUIRED.
   All operations for the recovery or production of oil or natural gas shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the agreements and
promises made in the permit application, and all state and federal laws,
including regulations of the state Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. All
drilling and production operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to
eliminate, as far as possible, dust, noise, vibration, or noxious odors, and
shall be in accordance with the best available technology. The motive power for
all pumping equipment shall be electricity.
(Prior Code, § 10-1706) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 117: LOTTERY REGULATIONS
Section
   
117.01   Lottery authorized; compliance with all laws, regulations and contract
terms
   
117.02   Restrictions on participation
§ 117.01 LOTTERY AUTHORIZED; COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS, REGULATIONS AND CONTRACT
TERMS.
   (A)   The conduct of a lottery within the corporate limits of the city by
use of a game known as Keno under the provisions of the state County and City
Lottery Act is authorized. Games shall be conducted only during the term of a
valid lottery operator agreement with the city. The City Council may approve
lottery operator agreements by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-1801)
   (B)   All aspects of the conduct of a Keno lottery within the corporate
limits of the city shall be conducted in strict compliance with the provisions
of the state County and City Lottery Act, the regulations promulgated by the
state Department of Revenue, and the terms of the lottery operator agreement
with the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-1802) (Ord. 92-2071, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 117.02 RESTRICTIONS ON PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any
way in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
      (2)   No lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct
its lottery or his or her immediate family, employees, or agents, shall play in
lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
      (3)   No person having an ownership interest in an authorized sales
outlet or employee thereof shall play the lottery when actually working at the
lottery or while on duty. Keno writers shall be prohibited from playing one
hour prior to and one hour after writing Keno.
      (4)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a
municipal official, or the immediate family of the member or official, from
playing in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body,
provided that the person is 19 years of age or older.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a person who
is related to the member, official, or operator by blood, marriage, or adoption
and resides in the same household of the member, official, or operator, or a
person who is claimed by the member, official, operator, or spouse of a member,
official, or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 9-646) (Ord. 2007-2804, passed 12-3-2007)
CHAPTER 118: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Systems must comply with law
   
118.03   Universal requirements
   
118.04   Administration and oversight
Automatic Dialing and Calling Devices
   
118.15   Direct interconnection permitted
   
118.16   Recorded message requirements
Permits
   
118.30   Permit required
   
118.31   Permit application; fees
   
118.32   Investigation; permit issuance
   
118.33   Permit renewal
   
118.34   Verification of information by inspection
   
118.35   Suspension of permit
   
118.36   Appeal from permit suspension
   
118.37   Duty of vendor to render system compliant
   
118.38   Permit holder responsible for installation, training; maintenance
   
118.39   Notice of changed circumstances
Alarm Response
   
118.50   Fire or Police Department obligations
   
118.51   Alarm activation
   
118.52   False alarm prohibited
   
118.53   Rebuttable presumption of false alarm
   
118.54   Record of false alarms
   
118.55   Order to disconnect; compliance
   
118.56   Excessive number of false alarms
 
   
118.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical, or electronic device that is
arranged, designed, or used to signal the occurrence in the city of a fire,
life hazard, or medical emergency or a burglary, robbery, or other criminal
offense. ALARM SYSTEMS include, but are not limited to, those by which public
safety personnel of the city are notified directly of such signals by automatic
recording devices, or are notified indirectly by way of third persons who
monitor the alarm systems and who report such signals to public safety
personnel. ALARM SYSTEMS also include those designed to register a signal which
is so audible, visible, or in other ways perceptible outside a protected
building, structure, or facility as to notify persons in the neighborhood
beyond the lot where the signal is located, who in turn notify public safety
personnel of the city of the signal. ALARM SYSTEMS do not include those affixed
to automobiles, or auxiliary devices installed by telephone companies to
protect telephone equipment, or systems which might be damaged or disrupted by
the use of any alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   Any signal created by an alarm system, including but not limited to
alarm signals initiated by human error, which directly or indirectly notifies
public safety personnel of the city of the occurrence of a fire, life hazard,
or medical emergency, or a burglary, robbery, or other criminal offense, when
either of the following circumstances is present:
         (a)   No such emergency, hazard, or offense has occurred or, as the
case may be, is occurring; or
         (b)   Fire, law enforcement, or emergency medical personnel are not
needed to respond to such emergency, hazard, or offense.
      (2)   False alarm shall not include, for purposes of this chapter, a
signal activated by fire, lightning, tornado winds, flooding or earthquake, or
by telephone or power line malfunction verified in writing by the telephone
company or power supplier seven days after the alarm.
   FIRE ALARM. Any communication, or attempted communication, whether in person
or by a mechanical, electrical, or electronic device, that is intended or is
designed to elicit a prompt response by the Fire Department of the city.
   OWNER or LESSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity who
or which purchases, leases, contracts for, or obtains an alarm system.
   POLICE ALARM. Any communication, or attempted communication, whether in
person or by a mechanical, electrical, or electronic device, that is intended
or is designed to elicit a prompt response by the Police Department of the
city.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. The officers and other members of the Fire
Department, Volunteer Fire and Rescue Squad, and Police Department,
respectively.
   VENDOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity associated
with an alarm business or company either indirectly or directly, whose duties
include, but are not necessarily limited to, any of the following: selling,
replacing, moving, repairing, maintaining, or installing an alarm system on or
in any structure, building, or facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-801) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.02 SYSTEMS MUST COMPLY WITH LAW.
   No alarm system shall be installed, maintained or used in violation of any
of the requirements of this chapter, or any applicable statute, law, or
administrative regulation of the United States of America or the state,
provided that every alarm system existing on the effective date of this chapter
shall be made to comply with the requirements of this chapter, including a
permit, within 90 days after the date.
(Prior Code, § 6-802) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.03 UNIVERSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All burglar alarm systems shall incorporate a device:
   (A)   That allows an adequate delay before the time at which activation of
the system will directly or indirectly signal public safety personnel, or
signal other parties who in turn might be expected to notify public safety
personnel. The delay time shall be such as will permit the owner or lessee to
stop a false alarm from being transmitted; or
   (B)   That limits any exterior signal to a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes in duration, and that causes the alarm system automatically to cease
emitting a signal at the expiration of the maximum time permitted.
(Prior Code, § 6-803) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.04 ADMINISTRATION AND OVERSIGHT.
   The provisions of this chapter concerning fire alarms and fire alarm systems
shall be administered by the Fire Chief, and the provisions concerning police
alarms and police alarm systems shall be administered by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-813) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
AUTOMATIC DIALING AND CALLING DEVICES
§ 118.15 DIRECT INTERCONNECTION PERMITTED.
   (A)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing or calling device
situated on premises within the city, upon obtaining a permit therefore as
provided in this chapter, may, if authorized as provided in this chapter, have
the device interconnected to a telephone line transmitting directly to:
      (1)   A privately-owned central alarm panel or station;
      (2)   An answering service; or
      (3)   The Fire Department or Police Department of the city as designated
by the department.
   (B)   An automatic dialing device also may be interconnected to one or more
telephone numbers available to the owner or lessee.
   (C)   No automatic dialing or calling device shall be interconnected to any
emergency telephone trunkline terminating in the Fire or Police communication
center except as authorized in this chapter, and no device shall be connected
to any telephone line or other office or department of the city except
telephone line or lines as may be designated by the city for the specific
purpose of receiving signals from alarm systems. The owners or lessees of all
automatic dialing devices interconnected to such a trunkline on the effective
date of this chapter shall cause the devices to be disconnected therefrom
within 90 days after this date.
(Prior Code, § 6-804) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.16 RECORDED MESSAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Alarm systems that automatically dial or call a telephone line that has been
designated by the city as provided in this chapter shall comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)   The total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the Fire
or Police Department, including repetition of message, shall not exceed 30
seconds duration;
   (B)   The recorded message transmitted shall be repeated not less than two
nor more than three times;
   (C)   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message, identifying by street number and name the
location of the emergency and the nature of the event which caused the alarm
system to activate. If the location of the event signaled by the alarm system
is in a multi-family building or a multi-unit office or commercial building,
the message shall also identify by number and floor the particular dwelling
unit, office unit or commercial unit in which the event occurred or is
occurring; and
   (D)   The recorded message being transmitted shall be appropriate for the
purpose for which the alarm system was installed, and the message in its
entirety shall be intelligible and spoken in the English language.
(Prior Code, § 6-804.01) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
PERMITS
§ 118.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, interconnect with, or use
any alarm system within the city without a current valid permit therefor as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-805) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.31 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Each application for an alarm system permit shall be made on a form
prescribed by the Chief of the department to which the application is made, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or lessee, who
shall be an adult occupant of the protected premises;
      (2)   The type of premises (home, office, other), and any business name
by which the premises are known;
      (3)   The address of the protected premises, including, if the premises
are in a multiple unit residential, commercial or industrial structure or
complex, any name by which the structure or complex is commonly known;
      (4)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of all agents having authority or responsibility with respect to the
structure or complex;
      (5)   If the alarm system component consists of automatic dialers, the
number and type thereof, the location of all remote annunciators, and the names
and telephone numbers of all persons or businesses which are or may be
preselected for automatic dialer contact;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person with whom the
owner or lessee has contracted for maintenance of the alarm system;
      (7)   The name, address, and telephone number of the persons, not less
than two, who can be contacted by the department 24 hours a day and seven days
a week to turn off or deactivate the alarm system; and
      (8)   A statement that the owner or lessee, in consideration of the
issuance of the requested permit, has read and agrees to be bound by the terms
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-805.01)
   (B)   If any alarm system component is to be connected to an alarm panel in
the Fire or Police Department:
      (1)   The application for an alarm system permit shall be accompanied by
a connection fee in the amount of as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule; and
      (2)   The owner or lessee shall pay annually, in addition, a maintenance
and monitoring fee in the amount as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. The latter fee shall be payable, in the first
instance, with the application, but no connection fee shall be payable by
owners or lessees of an alarm system component which is connected to the alarm
panel at the time of enactment of this chapter.
   (C)   If the alarm component is an automatic dialer to be interconnected to
a telephone in a city department, or is a system which provides for a third
party relay of calls to such a telephone, the owner or lessee shall pay to the
city department annually a monitoring fee in the amount as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule, and a fee in such amount shall be paid, in the first
instance, with the application for a permit.
   (D)   If a permit shall be issued, fees which accompanied the application
shall be retained; otherwise, they shall be refunded.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to alarm system components owned or
leased by the city or other public law enforcement officials or departments.
(Prior Code, § 6-805.02)
(Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.32 INVESTIGATION; PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the permit application and fee, if any, the Chief of the
Department shall cause to be made such investigation as he deems necessary. If
it appears to the Chief that the proposed system will comply with the
provisions of this chapter, he or she shall issue to the applicant a permit
bearing an identifying number, specifying the alarm system for which it is
used, and setting forth the expiration date of the permit. A permit to
interconnect a component of an alarm system situated outside the corporate
limits of the city with an alarm panel or telephone(s) of the city shall not
issue unless the Chief of the Department shall find in writing that the
connection will not overburden the Department's alarm system during the period
of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-805.03) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.33 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   Alarm systems permits shall not be extendable or renewable as a matter of
right beyond the period for which a maintenance or monitoring fee has been paid
as provided in §
118.31.
(Prior Code, § 6-805.04) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.34 VERIFICATION OF INFORMATION BY INSPECTION.
   The Chief of the Department may inspect, or cause to be inspected, any alarm
system for which a permit is required or for which a permit has been issued,
for the purpose of ascertaining that information furnished by the application
or permittee is correct, and that a system for which a permit has been issued
is being maintained in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-806) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.35 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for suspension by the Chief of the
Department of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   Any false or incomplete statement made on the permit application;
      (2)   Programming of an automatic dialer to select any city telephone
line;
      (3)   Failure to pay an annual maintenance or monitoring fee;
      (4)   Failure to pay a false alarm charge within the time required;
      (5)   Maintenance, installation, or use of the alarm system in violation
of any applicable law, ordinance, or regulation, including the requirements of
this chapter; and
      (6)   Failure to provide current information as required.
   (B)   If the Chief determines that there is cause for the suspension of a
permit, he or she shall mail a notice of suspension to the owner or lessee at
the latter's last known address, stating that the suspension will be effective
30 days after the date of mailing, unless a notice of appeal is filed with the
City Manager on or before the effective date.
(Prior Code, § 6-807) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.36 APPEAL FROM PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   Any owner or lessee to whom has been mailed a notice of suspension may
appeal the suspension to the City Manager. The filing of a notice of appeal
shall stay the suspension until disposition of the appeal by the City Manager
after notice and hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-807.01) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.37 DUTY OF VENDOR TO RENDER SYSTEM COMPLIANT.
   Any vendor installing or maintaining an alarm system shall cause such
installation or maintenance to conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-808) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.38 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR INSTALLATION, TRAINING; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The holder of an alarm system permit shall, at all times, be
responsible for the proper installation, maintenance, and repair of the system,
including, but not limited to, design features, method of installation, the
repair or replacement of any component, or any condition which may give rise to
a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 6-809)
   (B)   The holder of an alarm system permit shall be responsible for training
and re-training all employees, family members, and other persons who may make
regular use of the protected premises and who may, in the normal course of
their activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger a sensor. The
training shall include procedures and practices to avoid accidental alarms, and
steps to follow in the event the system is accidentally triggered.
(Prior Code, § 6-809.01)
(Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.39 NOTICE OF CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Within the ten days following any change of circumstances which render
obsolete any of the information submitted on an application for an alarm
systems permit, the holder of the permit shall file an amendment to his
application setting forth the currently accurate information. No additional fee
shall be required, unless the change is of such character that the permit is no
longer applicable to the alarm system for which the permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-809.02) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
ALARM RESPONSE
§ 118.50 FIRE OR POLICE DEPARTMENT OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire or Police Department may elect not to respond to an alarm
from an alarm system which does not comply with all of the provisions of this
chapter. Regardless, the issuance of an alarm system permit under this chapter
shall not impose upon the issuing Department an obligation to respond, or
liability for failure to respond, to any alarm from the system, and shall not
require the Department to accord any priority to the alarm.
(Prior Code, § 6-810)
   (B)   Upon receiving an emergency alarm signal, the Chief of the Fire
Department or Police Department shall promptly cause the owner or lessee, or
his or her authorized representative, to be notified thereof by telephone, if
reasonably possible, and the owner or lessee or his or her authorized
representative, shall immediately come to the premises in person.
(Prior Code, § 6-810.01)
(Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.51 ALARM ACTIVATION.
   No alarm system shall be activated or used except for the purpose of
summoning Fire or Police Department personnel for emergency or life hazard
situations. Without the prior express consent of the Fire or Police Department,
alarm systems shall not be tested so as to transmit a signal to personnel of
such Department when an emergency or life hazard situation does not exist.
(Prior Code, § 6-811) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.52 FALSE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, a fire or
police alarm known, or which in the exercise of reasonable care should be
known, to be false.
(Prior Code, § 6-812) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.53 REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION OF FALSE ALARM.
   If fire units, responding to an alarm and checking the premises according to
standard operating procedure, do not discover any evidence of a fire, or
immediately recent fire, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the alarm
was false. If police units, responding to an alarm and checking the premises
according to standard Department operating procedure, do not discover any
evidence of unauthorized entry or criminal activity, there shall be a
rebuttable presumption that the alarm was false.
(Prior Code, § 6-812.01) (Ord 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.54 RECORD OF FALSE ALARMS.
   The Fire Chief and Police Chief shall cause to be maintained a record of the
date and time of any false alarms received by his or her Department, and of the
officers of the Department who responded. The record shall be open for the
inspection of the owner or lessee, or his or her authorized representative, on
regular business days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at the
office of the Chief of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-812.02) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.55 ORDER TO DISCONNECT; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In the event a false alarm was, or may have been, the result of
improper design, installation, or maintenance of the owner's or lessee's alarm
system component, the Fire Chief or, as the case may be, Police Chief, shall
notify the owner or lessee to cause the component to comply with the
requirements of this chapter within the time specified in the notice, and may
order the component disconnected immediately pending compliance. The notice may
be either oral or in writing, in the Chief's sound discretion.
   (B)   The ordered disconnection shall be done in a manner that signals are
not emitted so as to notify the Fire or, as the case may be, Police Department
by a signal on its alarm panel, or directly or indirectly through automatic
telephone recording devices, or to register a signal which is so audible,
visible, or in other ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure,
or facility as to notify persons in the neighborhood who may in turn notify
either the Fire Department or the Police Department of the signal.
(Prior Code, § 6-812.03) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.56 EXCESSIVE NUMBER OF FALSE ALARMS.
   In the event that, within any period of 12 months, in excess of four false
alarms shall be transmitted by any alarm system component connected to a panel
in the Fire or Police Department, or by any automatic dialer or a third party
relay to a telephone in the Department, and the alarms result in responses by
the Department to the scene, the owner or lessee shall pay to the city, as the
liquidated amount of expenses incurred by the Department in connection with
responses, the sum(s) as set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule after written notice from the Chief, mailed to the
owner or lessee at his or her last known address, specifying the alarms and
responses.
(Prior Code, § 6-812.04) (Ord. 93-2173, passed 8-30-1993)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
chapter or section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Unless otherwise specified in the particular chapter or section for which the
person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in
any amount not less than $20 nor more than $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any
length of time not to exceed three months, at the discretion of the court;
provided, whenever any section of this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a
violation of that section shall be penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000,
in which case a new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply. Provided further, that where licenses, charges
and surcharges are due the city, the court shall order the license secured and
sums paid in addition to the fine fixed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 6-901)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a
nuisance exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-902)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 119: HOTEL COMPANIES OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
119.01   Occupation tax; requirement to pay
   
119.02   Hotel accommodations
   
119.03   Hotel defined
   
119.04   Occupied room, defined; exceptions
   
119.05   Collection
   
119.06   Records
   
119.07   Due date
   
119.08   Right to sue
   
119.09   Revenue measure
   
119.10   Intent
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 OCCUPATION TAX; REQUIREMENT TO PAY.
   An occupation tax is hereby levied and imposed on every person or business
entity who engages in the business of operating a hotel for revenue in the
city. All hotel companies doing business in the city are required to pay an
occupation tax as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.02 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Each person engaged in the business of operating a hotel in the city shall
pay an occupation tax in the amount of 4% of the basic rental rates charged per
occupied room per night.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.03 HOTEL DEFINED.
   HOTEL shall mean any facility in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain sleeping accommodations in any space ordinarily used for accommodations.
The term shall include hotels, motels, bed and breakfast accommodations,
tourist hotels, campgrounds, courts, lodging houses, inns and nonprofit hotels;
but HOTEL shall not be defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing
homes, chronic care centers, dormitories, or facilities operated by an
educational institution and regularly used to house students.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.04 OCCUPIED ROOM, DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   OCCUPIED ROOM shall mean any space ordinarily used for sleeping
accommodations and for which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the
use or possession, or the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed
30 continuous days. The term shall include camping space, trailer space or
recreational vehicle space. The term does not include a function room such as a
ballroom, banquet room, reception room, or meeting room, provided it is not
used as temporary sleeping accommodations.
   (B)   The term OCCUPIED ROOM shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this
chapter shall be measured by or collected for:
      (1)   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
      (2)   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by a
person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act
of 1967, as it is amended from time to time; or
      (3)   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.05 COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected by the hotel operator
from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The tax may be shown
as an add-on to the charge for occupancy of the rooms and shall be collectible
at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when the charge for the
occupancy is paid. The operator shall remain responsible for payment of all
taxes imposed whether or not the taxes are actually collected from the guests.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.06 RECORDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this article to fail
to maintain or fail to make available to the city, upon 72 hours notice,
written records accurately and completely evidencing the number of rooms
occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupation tax due or
paid under this chapter, and such other information as is required by the City
Clerk. Such records shall be maintained for a period of three years after the
occupation tax is due.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.07 DUE DATE.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the tax imposed by
this chapter shall be due and payable on the first day of each calendar month
next succeeding the month during which the room was occupied. All taxes not
paid by the twenty-fifth day of the month in which they are due and payable
shall be deemed to be delinquent. The operator shall be assessed a penalty of
10% on all delinquent amounts as well as interest of 1% per month or fraction
thereof from the first of the month in which such tax becomes due and payable
until the date of payment.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.08 RIGHT TO SUE.
   In case any hotel shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax provided
for by this chapter at the time specified for such payment, the city shall have
the right to sue any such company in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the amount of such occupation tax due and payable under the terms and
provisions of this chapter and may recover judgment against any such company
for such amount so due,
together with interest and penalties, and may have execution thereon.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.09 REVENUE MEASURE.
   The provisions of this section are enacted solely as a revenue measure of
the city.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.10 INTENT.
   All amounts realized from the collection of the occupation tax levied
pursuant to this chapter shall be placed to the credit of the General Fund to
be used for projects or such other fund or funds as designated by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code. Each distinct act or violation of the terms of this chapter
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-2962, passed 4-2-2018)
CHAPTER 120: SIDEWALK CAFÉS
Section
   
120.01   Sidewalk café definition
   
120.02   Sidewalk cafés authorized
   
120.03   Sidewalk café requirements
   
120.04   License applications
   
120.05   Granting of license
   
120.06   Criteria for issuance and removal
   
120.07   Conditions of license
   
120.08   Transfer of license
   
120.09   Expiration of license
   
120.10   Suspension or revocation of license
   
120.11   License fee
§ 120.01 SIDEWALK CAFÉ DEFINITION.
   A grouping of tables, chairs and related items located wholly or partially
within a public sidewalk or right-of-way for the purposes of service and
consumption of food and beverages by patrons, when located immediately adjacent
to a food and beverage service establishment having a common operator.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.02 SIDEWALK CAFÉS AUTHORIZED.
   Sidewalk cafés with or without service of alcohol may be located on public
sidewalks subject to a license issued by the City Council pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.03 SIDEWALK CAFÉ REQUIREMENTS.
   Installation and operation of all sidewalk cafés are subject to the
following requirements and sidewalk cafés serving intoxicating liquor, beer or
wine are subject to the applicable requirements of
Ch. 111.
   (A)   Sidewalk cafés may only be installed and operated during the hours of
operation of the food service establishment provided that no sidewalk café may
be operated after the hour of 11:00 p.m. A licensee may apply to the City
Council for an exception to extend the operating hours from 11:00 p.m. to 2:00
a.m. The exception shall be issued on a case by case basis. An application to
extend the hours must be presented to the City Clerk three weeks prior to the
event requiring the exception. The City Council may further restrict the hours
of operation of a sidewalk café based upon the proximity to residential
dwelling units, and upon considerations relating to the safety, repose and
welfare of residents, businesses and other uses near the establishment.
Furniture and fixtures may be stored overnight within the sidewalk café area
provided the licensee shall ensure all items are stored and secured in a neat
and orderly manner.
   (B)   All sidewalk cafés must abut and be operated as part of the food
service establishment operated by the applicant and shall have delineated
limits separating the sidewalk café from the travelled portion of the sidewalk.
Sidewalk cafés serving intoxicating liquor, beer or wine must have a visually
appealing barrier made of fencing or planters surrounding the entire sidewalk
café area which must be compact and contiguous with the enclosed portion of the
licensed premises. The barrier shall be continuous, except for that portion
used as an opening for ingress and egress. The opening can be in the form of a
gate or a visually appealing chain. The gate or chain shall remain closed and
shall only be used for the purpose of a fire exit, handicap accessability or
maintenance purposes. No licensee shall expand a sidewalk café without first
obtaining an amended sidewalk café license covering the additional space.
   (C)   Only food or beverages for immediate consumption may be offered for
sale and no alcoholic beverages may be dispensed from within the sidewalk café.
The licensee shall provide food service in all sidewalk café areas during all
hours of operation. Food service may consist of less than a full menu, but
shall at all times offer a substantial choice of main courses, other food
items, and non-alcoholic beverages. Glassware may be used in the service of
food and beverages but only to the extent such use does not create a safety
hazard for patrons or the public in adjacent areas and the licensee is
responsible to immediately remove any broken glass from the premises.
   (D)   No licensee shall allow entertainment within a sidewalk café,
including non-live entertainment such as radio, taped music and television,
unless the same is expressly approved in writing by the City Council, and in no
event shall noise be generated that would unreasonably annoy or interfere with
neighboring property owners or occupants or the public.
   (E)   No sidewalk café may: (i) unduly restrict the safe usage of any
roadway or the sidewalk by the public after taking into consideration the
locations of obstructions, vehicular traffic and other impediments to the
passage of vehicles and pedestrians; (ii) be located within ten feet of any
traffic signal, crosswalk or pedestrian curb cut; or (iii) adjoin any premises
other than the applicant's food service establishment. All signs, including
sandwich boards, must comply with city zoning regulations governing signs and
no signs may be placed in a manner that would obstruct a pedestrian sidewalk
the licensee is otherwise required to keep clear and unobstructed.
   (F)   No advertising shall be permitted on or in any sidewalk café or any
extension thereof except to identify the product and/or the name of the vendor,
and shall in all respects comply with all city zoning regulations governing
signs.
   (G)   Fencing and planters shall be visually appealing and constructed of
high-quality, durable materials maintained in good condition and shall not be
permanently attached to the sidewalk or right-of-way without first obtaining
permission from the City Council. Fencing and planters shall not exceed 42
inches in height, provided live plants may extend to a height of not more than
six feet, all as measured from the surface of the sidewalk or right-of-way.
Corner posts may exceed 42 inches if approved by the City Council. Planters
must include live plants and must be well maintained at all times.
   (H)   No umbrella, canopy, or similar device in any sidewalk café shall be
more than six and one-half feet above ground level without approval from the
city.
   (I)   (1)   A clear, unobstructed passageway not less than six feet in width
at all points, entirely across the frontage of the property occupied by the
occupant parallel to the line of the street and generally in the line of
pedestrian traffic, shall be maintained at all times, except as follows:
      (2)   If the city shall find special circumstances involving site
characteristics or the flow of pedestrian traffic at such location, the
conditions of approval may require a passageway greater than six feet or may
prohibit operation of the sidewalk café for certain specified periods.
   (J)   Sidewalk cafés shall be handicap accessible and shall be installed in
a manner complying with all ADA requirements and shall provide for a minimum of
six feet of clear, unobstructed pedestrian walkway between all obstructions and
the sidewalk curb. No employee or server may obstruct pedestrian walkways at
any time.
   (K)   No sidewalk café shall be installed or operated, and no license shall
be issued, for any location where the same is prohibited by state or local law
and the ownership, operation and maintenance of all sidewalk cafés shall be
subject to all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
   (L)   The licensee shall maintain the sidewalk café in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible to remove all trash and litter generated by
the operation of the sidewalk café within a reasonable distance from the area.
The licensee shall be responsible for all costs of repairing any damage to the
sidewalk or other public property caused by the use of the sidewalk or public
property as a sidewalk café. If the City Council approves any improvements to
the sidewalk or right-of-way necessary for the licensee to operate a sidewalk
café, the costs of such improvements plus any administrative costs shall be
paid for in advance by the licensee.
   (M)   All sidewalk café licensees must at all times maintain commercial
liability insurance covering the licensed premises and the sidewalk café area
with minimum policy limits for bodily injury or death of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 annual aggregate, and for property
damage of not less than $50,000. Proof of the required liability insurance
shall be in the form of a certificate of insurance or some other form
acceptable to the City Attorney and City Clerk. All liability insurance
policies required herein shall name the city as any additional insured and
shall provide that there shall be no cancellation of the policy for any cause,
by the insured or by the insurance company, without first giving ten-days'
written notice to the city, addressed to the City Clerk. Operation of a
sidewalk café or liquor sales by a licensee without required liability
insurance coverage shall be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of
the license. In addition, the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city, the city's public officials, employees and agents from any loss, costs,
damages and expenses arising out of the use, design, operation or maintenance
of the sidewalk café. These insurance and indemnification requirements shall be
memorialized in a license agreement signed by the licensee prior to the initial
issuance of the sidewalk café license and upon any renewal thereof, but failure
of the city and the licensee to execute such a license agreement shall not
alleviate the licensee of its insurance and indemnification obligations
hereunder.
   (N)   The city shall retain the right to remove or cause to be removed any
tables, chairs, furnishings, planters, fencing or other obstructions from the
sidewalk or public right-of-way as necessary to access public utilities and
facilities, during community civic festivals, celebrations and other events, or
if the city reasonably determines any such item or items create an unreasonable
risk to public health or safety. The city shall endeavor to give reasonable
advance notice to the licensee that items need to be removed or relocated.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.04 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   An applicant for a sidewalk café license shall file an application on forms
provided by the City Clerk which shall include, in addition to any other
information required by the city, the following:
   (A)   The business name, address, phone number and contact person.
   (B)   A site plan of the proposed sidewalk café drawn to scale covering the
entire area between the curb and building showing locations of the property
lines, curbs, all streets in front of and adjacent to the property, all
sidewalk dimensions measured from the building face to the curb, all existing
facilities and obstructions within the right-of-way, the proposed location of
all sidewalk café fixtures, including but not limited to, tables, chairs,
umbrellas, planters, fencing, barricades, lighting, and heaters, and the
proposed limits of the sidewalk café.
   (C)   Photographs and manufacturer specifications for all proposed sidewalk
café furniture and fixtures.
   (D)   Description and locations of any sound, television or video systems
proposed for the sidewalk café.
   (E)   Description of all food and beverages that will be served within the
sidewalk café and the proposed hours of operation.
   (F)   Description of all points of access between the building and the
sidewalk café and exterior areas.
   (G)   Description of ingress and egress arrangements, including those
necessary to provide handicap accessibility and control of persons entering and
leaving the premises to prevent consumption of alcohol by minors and to ensure
safety of moveable seating arrangements.
   (H)   Description of all physical improvements to be constructed to
accommodate the sidewalk café.
   (I)   An insurance commitment or binder securing all insurance coverage
required under this chapter and
Ch. 111, if applicable, on the sidewalk café areas and meeting all requirements
for naming the city as an additional insured.
   (J)   Any other information known to the applicant that may reasonably
impact the issuance of the license including, but not limited to, objections to
the proposed sidewalk café raised by neighboring property owners or the public,
obstructions or other factors that may interfere with pedestrian travel on the
affected sidewalk area, or conditions that may impact public health or safety
if the sidewalk café license is issued. Upon submission of a complete
application, the City Clerk shall place the application upon the agenda of the
next available City Council meeting for which proper notice as required by this
section can be given. A public hearing on the application shall be required for
all initial sidewalk café applications, all subsequent applications proposing
modifications to a sidewalk café site plan, and whenever the city determines a
public hearing is necessary to determine whether the criteria for granting a
sidewalk café license are satisfied. When applicable, the City Clerk shall
cause notice of the public hearing to be given in the same manner as prescribed
for special use permits.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.05 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   Following the required public hearing, if any, the City Council may grant or
deny the license or refer the matter to any commission or committee for further
study.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.06 CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL.
   No sidewalk café license may be issued or renewed if the results of the
investigation or other evidence given to the City Council through any means,
shows to the satisfaction of the Council, that the issuance or renewal would
not be in the public's interest. The Council shall make written findings,
certifying the sidewalk café will comply with the following criteria.
   (A)   The design and operation satisfy the applicable requirements of this
chapter and will be in harmony with the purpose and intent of city zoning
regulations.
   (B)   The design and operation will not unreasonably interfere with or annoy
users of neighboring residential, commercial or public property.
   (C)   The design and operation will not unreasonably interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or access to any public street, utility or
other facilities.
   (D)   Where liquor, wine or beer will be served, the licensed premises is
compact and contiguous with the premises licensed under
Ch. 111 and the design and operation will safeguard against consumption of
alcohol by minors.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.07 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to the
conditions of this section and all other sections of this chapter and any other
applicable ordinance of the city, state law, or federal law, and shall include
the following conditions:
   (A)   Posting. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
licensed establishment at all times.
   (B)   Additional conditions. The Council may, upon a finding of necessity,
place the conditions and restrictions upon the license as it, at its
discretion, may deem reasonable and justified to protect the public interest.
   (C)   Licenses limited to certain areas. Sidewalk café licenses shall be
limited to the record owners of business property abutting public space in the
following area: Beginning at the intersection of East “E” Street and Norris
Avenue, west to the intersection of West 2nd Street and East “E” Street, south
to the intersection of West 2nd Street and West “A” Street, east to the
intersection of West “A” Street and Norris Avenue, north to the point of
beginning.
   (D)   Inspection by peace officers or health officials. All sidewalk cafés
shall be subject to compliance inspections and no licensee or employee of a
licensee shall hinder or prevent a peace officer, health officer, building
official, fire official, or any other employee so designated by the City
Council or City Manager from entering upon and inspecting the licensed premises
during business hours, without a search warrant.
   (E)   Responsibility of licensee. Every licensee, whether actually present
on the licensed premises or not, shall be responsible for the conduct of the
licensed premises and shall maintain conditions of sobriety and order on the
licensed premises.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.08 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferrable to another
person or entity nor may any such license be transferred to a different
location.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.09 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall renew from year to year so
long as the intended use is made of the premises; provided, however, the
maximum term of the license shall be ten years, unless specifically renewed by
the City Council.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.10 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may suspend, revoke or deny renewal of any sidewalk café
license upon the violation of any license condition or of any provision or
condition of this chapter, any other city ordinance, or of any state or federal
law. Before the Council shall suspend or revoke any license issued under this
chapter, the licensee shall be given at least ten-days' notice stating the time
and place of the hearing and the charges against the licensee.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 120.11 LICENSE FEE.
   Any person issued a license or license renewal under this chapter shall pay
an initial fee of $100 and an annual fee thereafter of $50. The annual fee
shall be paid on or before the first day of January each year the license is
held.
(Ord. 2020-3013, passed 9-21-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
         
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Property
   
130.01   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.02   Unauthorized entry into motor vehicle
Offenses Against Persons - Sexual Predators
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Residency restrictions; exceptions
Offenses Against the Peace
   
130.30   Discharge of firearms in city limits
   
130.31   Disorderly conduct
   
130.32   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.33   (Reserved)
   
130.34   Obstructing/harassing a peace officer
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.01 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to purposely, willfully,
or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real or personal property
of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-409) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.02 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY INTO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter a motor vehicle belonging to
another without the permission of the owner or other person in lawful
possession thereof. This section shall not apply to any person entering a motor
vehicle for a lawful purpose.
(Ord. 2018-2976, passed 12-17-2018)
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS - SEXUAL PREDATORS
§ 130.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The state Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
the persons' place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 2006-2772, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRAVATED OFFENSE. Any registrable offense under Neb. RS 29-4003 which
involves the penetration of, direct genital touching of, oral to anal contact
with, or oral to genital contact with:
      (1)   A victim age 13 years or older without the consent of the victim;
      (2)   A victim under the age of 13 years; or
      (3)   A victim who the sex offender knew or should have known as mentally
or physically incapable of resisting or appraising the nature of his or her
conduct.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
(Ord. 2006-2772, passed 7-17-2006; Ord. 2018-2963, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 130.17 RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500 feet from
a school or child care facility.
   (B)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the school or child
care facility.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator's residence at that location.
(Ord. 2006-2772, passed 7-17-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, see Laws 2006, LB 1199, §§ 27 to
29
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003, 29-4013
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 130.30 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS IN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   No person, except a law enforcement officer in the discharge of his or
her duty, shall fire or discharge any weapon or firearm, including any gun,
pistol, fowling piece, air gun, pellet gun, B-B gun, bow or sling shot, or
other firearm, within the city, provided that this prohibition shall not apply
to the following:
      (1)   Regularly constituted organizations or committees conducting public
observances or celebrations when specifically approved, in writing and in
advance, by the City Manager;
      (2)   Indoor or outdoor shooting ranges at specific locations when
specifically approved, in writing and in advance, by the City Manager; and/or
      (3)   Educational programs relating to firearms usage when specifically
approved, in writing and in advance, by the City Manager.
   (B)   All requests must be made one week in advance and in writing, and
directed to the City Manager. Prior to City Manager approval, the City Manager
shall ensure sufficient bond and insurance is obtained by the requesting party.
The City Manager shall further ensure that each event includes competent adult
supervision, the competent adult supervision to be individuals certified by the
Hunter Safety Program, the state Department of Game and Parks, the National
Rifle Association, or any other legitimate certified and competent firearm
safety program.
(Prior Code, § 6-402) (Ord. 1863, passed 3-6-1989)
§ 130.31 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in any
riotous, tumultuous or disorderly conduct, to take part in any disorderly
assembly, to fight, or challenge to fight, by argument or otherwise, to
quarrel, to engage in lewd, indecent and lascivious behavior, or to do or
engage in any other disorderly act or conduct, in any place, public or private,
tending to disturb the peace of others, or the peace, good order and quiet of
the city.
   (B)   Any person who, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace or
whereby a breach of the peace may be occasioned, commits any of the following
acts, shall be deemed to have committed the offense of disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Uses offensive, profane, indecent, disorderly, threatening,
abusive, or insulting language;
      (2)   Acts in such a manner as to annoy, disturb, threaten, menace,
interfere with, obstruct, or be offensive to others;
      (3)   (a)   Congregates with others or loiters upon a public street,
avenue, road, alley, bridge, sidewalk, highway, any place used for the passage
of persons or vehicles, or any way set apart for public travel, and refuses to
move on when ordered by the police.
         (b)   LOITER shall mean to linger, dally, be dilatory, stand, sit,
saunter, lag behind, move slowly about, loaf, or spend time idly. The fact that
such loitering was committed inside or upon a motor vehicle, even though the
same was lawfully parked, shall not be a defense in a prosecution under this
section.
      (4)   Causes a crowd to collect, except when lawfully addressing the
crowds; and/or
      (5)   Stand or sit on a sidewalk, street, street corner, or any other
place and make insulting remarks to or about persons passing on the street or
sidewalk, or otherwise annoy the persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-408) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228
§ 130.32 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the municipality pursuant
to a city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a municipal
law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the municipality pursuant
to a city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
municipality. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the
municipality shall be issued at no cost to the municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of
such vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the municipality that a lien or mortgage exists, such
notice shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming
such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should
be retained for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice,
if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30
days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a municipality law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that
the vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this municipality, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the
vehicle. If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be
removed from public property in this municipality, the state agency shall
deliver the vehicle to the municipality which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the
municipality's custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by
the city without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such
vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
municipality, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which
occurs during its removal or while in the possession of the municipality or its
contractual agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a
result of any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense, subject to penalty provided in §
130.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-411) (Ord. 2020-3003, passed 4-6-2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 130.33 (RESERVED).
§ 130.34 OBSTRUCTING/HARASSING A POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she knowingly
and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to distract,
agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such animal
from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009).
   (C)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb, RS 28-906)
(Ord. 2020-3007, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01 shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the conviction is for a first offense, the person shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100;
      (2)   If the conviction is for a second offense, the person shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 and shall be confined jail for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days; and
      (3)   If the conviction is for a third offense, or subsequent offense
thereafter, the person shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 and
confinement, with or without hard labor, in the city jail for not less than six
days nor more than three months.
(Prior Code, § 6-409)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.32 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
this particular section, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not less than $25 and not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length
of time not to exceed three months, in the discretion of the court, provided
whenever §§
130.30 through
130.32 shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be penalized
by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-412)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
130.34 shall, upon conviction therefor, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be
punished as follows:
      (1)   If the conviction is for a first offense, the person shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $750 and not to exceed $1,000;
      (2)   If the conviction is for a second offense or for any offense
thereafter, the person shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,500.
   (E)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a
nuisance exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-413)
(Ord. 2020-3007, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. 2021-3033, passed 11-1-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-227, 16-228, 18-1720, 18-1722
   Similar state law provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Age and time restrictions
   
131.02   Duty of parent or guardian
   
131.03   Arrest custodial procedure
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 AGE AND TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 17 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon the public streets, sidewalks,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, public places and public buildings, places of
amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places, or to
ride in or upon, drive or otherwise operate any automobile, bicycle, or other
vehicle, in, upon, over, or through the streets, alleys, or other public places
of the city, between the hours of:
      (1)   10:30 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. of the following day of all days of the
week except on Friday and Saturday, and except that from June 1 to August 31 of
each year, the hours shall be from 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. of the following day
on all days of the week except on Friday and Saturday; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m to 5:00 a.m. on each Saturday and Sunday, except that
from June 1 to August 31 of each year the hours shall be from 12:30 a.m. to 5:
00 a.m. on each Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   These provisions shall apply unless such person is accompanied by a
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the legal care and custody of
the minor person, or unless the minor person is upon an emergency errand or
legitimate business, directed by his or her parent, guardian, or legal
custodian. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (2)   Involved in an emergency;
      (3)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor;
      (4)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (5)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-601) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 131.02 DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 years to allow or permit
the minor person to do any of the things prohibited by §
131.01 of this chapter, unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the legal care and custody of the minor,
or unless the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed
by his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian.
(Prior Code, § 6-602)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 131.03 ARREST CUSTODIAL PROCEDURE.
   No minor person taken into custody under the provisions of §
131.01 shall be confined until he or she has been taken home, or the parent,
guardian, or legal custodian notified, and it has been ascertained whether or
not the minor person is within the control of his or her parent, guardian, or
legal custodian; and if the parent, guardian, or legal custodian shall state
that the minor cannot be controlled by them, then the minor shall be proceeded
against, otherwise the parent, guardian, or custodian shall be proceeded
against.
(Prior Code, § 6-603)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined as follows.
      (1)   For the first offense, the person shall be fined not less than $10
nor more than $100.
      (2)   For the second and subsequent offenses, the person shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $100.
   (B)   All persons convicted and fined shall stand committed until the fine
and costs are paid.
(Prior Code, § 6-604)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-225, 16-246
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
         
151.   ZONING
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Building Codes
   
150.010   International Building Code, International Residential Code,
International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code, International Fuel
Gas Code, International Property Maintenance Code, International Existing
Building Code, International Energy Conservation Code adopted by reference
   
150.020   Amendments to International Building Code
   
150.030   Amendments to International Residential Code
   
150.040   Amendments to International Plumbing Code
   
150.045   Leaking pipes deemed nuisance
   
150.050   Amendments to International Mechanical Code
   
150.055   Mechanical permit required
   
150.056   Air conditioning or refrigeration effluent discharge
   
150.060   Amendments to International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.070   Amendments to International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.080   Amendments to International Existing Building Code
   
150.090   Amendments to International Energy Conservation Code
Building Inspector
   
150.200   Creation of office
   
150.202   Power and authority; stop work orders
   
150.204   Right of entry
   
150.206   Permit; certificate of occupancy
   
150.208   Duplicate building permits to County Assessor
   
150.210   Time of inspection
   
150.212   Barricades and lights
   
150.220   Means of appeal
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.300   Definition
   
150.302   Prohibition against unsafe buildings
   
150.304   Determination and notice
   
150.306   Hearing; appeal of decision
   
150.308   Special assessments
Mobile Home Parks and Mobile Homes
   
150.330   Mobile home park regulations adopted; purpose
   
150.332   Mobile home requirements
   
150.334   Conflict of regulations; prevailing terms
Structure Moving
   
150.350   Application for permit
   
150.352   Application review
   
150.354   Prerequisites for permit issuance; cost estimate deposit
   
150.356   Certificate or policy of insurance for structure moving company
Electricity
   
150.380   Overview
   
150.382   Electrical Code
Contractor’s License
   
150.400   License required
   
150.402   Persons exempt from license requirement
   
150.404   Contractor license; types and qualifications
   
150.406   Application review process; term and appeals
   
150.408   Insurance requirements
   
150.410   Revocation of license
   
150.412   Unlawful use of license
   
150.414   Records retention
Penalty
   
150.999   Generally
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.010 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE,
INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE, INTERNATIONAL FUEL
GAS CODE, INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE, INTERNATIONAL EXISTING
BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided by specific amendment, the following
publications are hereby adopted, incorporated, and made a part of this
municipal code the same as though spread at large herein:
      (1)   International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the International
Building Code.
      (2)   International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the International
Residential Code.
      (3)   International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the International
Plumbing Code.
      (4)   International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the International
Mechanical Code.
      (5)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the International
Fuel Gas Code.
      (6)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the
International Property Maintenance Code.
      (7)   International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the
International Existing Building Code.
      (8)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, Inc., hereinafter referred to as the
International Energy Conservation Code.
   (B)   The regulations contained in the International Building Code, the
International Residential Code, the International Plumbing Code, the
International Mechanical Code, the International Fuel Gas Code, the
International Property Maintenance Code, the International Existing Building
Code and the International Energy Conservation Code shall be enforced within
the corporate limits of the city and within the unincorporated extraterritorial
jurisdiction beyond and adjacent to the city's corporate boundaries. One
printed copy of the publications described above shall be filed in the office
of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2005-2733, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.020 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as
the "Code", adopted by the provisions of this chapter, is hereby amended,
altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation,"
   Section 101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph
thereto reading as follows:
   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Municipal Code of the
City of McCook, Nebraska, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McCook,
Nebraska, specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive, as determined by the Building Official
shall govern.
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Building Official" shall mean the City
Manager. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 105.2, Work exempt from permit of the Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
   105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of this
Code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any
manner in violation of the provisions of this Code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Any individual performing any specific work
that has a total value of three hundred ($300.00) dollars or less shall not be
required to obtain a permit.
   Building:
   1. One-story detached accessory structures, used tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200
square feet.
   2. Oil derricks.
   3. Retaining walls which are not over 4 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or
impound Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
   4. Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed 2 to
1.
   5. Sidewalks and driveways.
   6. Painting, paneling, papering, tiling, carpeting, replacement of floor
covering, cabinets, counter tops, similar finish work, nonstructural concrete
work, siding repair, and glass replacement.
   7. Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.
   8. Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches deep and are
installed entirely above ground.
   9. Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes,
not including service systems.
   10. Swings and other playground equipment.
   11. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   12. Replacement windows when the same size or smaller and involving no
structural changes.
   13. Roof repair and replacement if less than 25% of roof.
   14. Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions not
over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
   Electrical:
   State of Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Gas:
   1. Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
   2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   3. Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
   Mechanical:
   1. Portable heating appliance.
   2. Portable ventilation appliances.
   3. Portable cooling unit.
   4. Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
   5. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   6. Portable evaporative cooler.
   7. Self-containing refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds or less of
refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
   8. Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
   Plumbing:
   1. The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or
vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the
same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit
shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
   2. The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or
fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
   Section 105.2.1, Emergency Repairs is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 105.2.1 Emergency Repairs. Where equipment replacements and repairs
must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be
submitted the next working business day to the Building Inspector.
   Section 105.2.3, Public service agencies is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Section 105.2.3 Public service agencies. A permit shall not be required for
the installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission,
distribution, metering or other related equipment that is under the ownership
and control of public service agencies by established right.
   Section 105.3, Application for permit of the Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
   105.3 Application for permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished by the Building
and Zoning Department for that purpose. Such application shall:
   1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
   2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
   3. Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
   4. Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as
required in Section 107 and pay the fees set by ordinance of the City Council
and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. Where work for which a permit is required is started
prior to obtaining said permit, the Building Official/Agent may at his/her
discretion issue a stop work order until said permit is obtained and shall levy
a penalty in addition to the regular permit fee in the amount of one hundred
($100.00) dollars.
   5. State the valuation of the proposed work.
   6. Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant's authorized agent.
   7. Give such other data and information as required by the Building
Official/Agent.
   8. For new construction or for existing structures where exterior dimensions
are changed, provide a Certificate of Lot Survey, signed by a Registered Land
Surveyor licensed in the State of Nebraska, certifying that the lot has been
accurately surveyed and that each lot corner has been well and accurately
staked and marked, providing the front, side and rear yard dimensions requested
are less than 125% of minimum yard requirements.
   Additional requirements for commercial applications:
   1. Submit a drainage plan based upon a ten year storm event prepared by a
Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any proposed use which has a new
roof area in excess of 10,000 square feet or a combination of new roof and new
paved parking in excess of 20,000 square feet. The report shall include an
evaluation of the ability of the proposed water courses, drainage tiles, storm
sewers, culverts and other improvements pertaining to drainage or flood control
to handle the runoff generated by the development of the land within and above
the tract for which the permit is required and the impact of such drainage on
downstream drainage systems. The drainage report must be approved prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
   2. Provide the estimated daily and peak hourly flow as well as the estimated
BOD of the waste as prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for
any proposed use which has an estimated five-day BOD greater than 250 parts per
million by weight or a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C).
   3. Submit a water distribution report for any proposed use which will
require a new or up sized meter and/or service of two inches (2") or larger and
shall provide estimated annual, peak day, and peak hour use. The water
distribution report must be approved prior to issuance of the building permit.
   4. Provide an erosion control plan for both during and after construction as
prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any development or
expansion which involves grading (fill or excavation) of any area greater than
20,000 square feet.
   Section 105.5, Expiration is hereby amended to read as follows:
   105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced;
provided, however, that no permit shall be valid after two (2) years from the
date of issue.
   Section 108.3, Temporary power of the Code is hereby deleted. The State of
Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Section 1612.3, Establishment of flood hazard areas is hereby amended to
read as follows:
   Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas. To establish flood
hazard areas, the applicable governing authority shall adopt a flood hazard map
and supporting data. The flood hazard map shall include, at a minimum, areas of
special flood hazard as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
in an engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study for the City of
McCook," dated January 1, 1975, as amended or revised with the accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) and
related supporting data along with any revisions thereto. The adopted flood
hazard map and supporting data are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be part of this section.
(Ord. 2005-2733, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.030 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as
the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is hereby amended,
altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section R101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section R101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding a new
paragraph thereto reading as follows:
   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Municipal Code of the
City of McCook, Nebraska, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McCook,
Nebraska, specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive, as determined by the Building Official,
shall govern.
   Section R103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Building Official" shall mean the City
Manager. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section R103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section R105.2, Work exempt from permit of the Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
   R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this jurisdiction. Any individual performing any specific work that has a total
value of three hundred ($300.00) dollars or less shall not be required to
obtain a permit.
   Building:
   1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200 square
feet.
   2. Retaining walls which are not over 4 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge.
   3. Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not exceed 2 to
1.
   4. Sidewalks and driveways.
   5. Painting, paneling, papering, tiling, carpeting, replacement of floor
covering, cabinets, counter tops, similar finish work, nonstructural concrete
work, siding repair, and glass replacement.
   6. Prefabricated swimming pools which are less than 24 inches deep.
   7. Swings and other playground equipment.
   8. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   9. Replacement windows when the same size or smaller and involving no
structural changes.
   10. Roof repair and replacement if less than 25% of roof.
   11. Decks not exceeding 200 square feet in area, that are not more than 30
inches above grade at any point, are not attached to a dwelling and do not
serve the exit door required by Section 311.4.
   Electrical:
   State of Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Gas:
   1. Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
   2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   3. Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
   Mechanical:
   1. Portable heating appliance.
   2. Portable ventilation appliances.
   3. Portable cooling unit.
   4. Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
   5. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   6. Portable evaporative cooler.
   7. Self-containing refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds or less of
refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
   8. Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
   Plumbing:
   1. The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or
vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the
same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit
shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
   2. The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or
fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
   Section R105.2.1, Emergency Repairs is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section R105.2.1 Emergency Repairs. Where equipment replacements and repairs
must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be
submitted within the next working business day to the Building Inspector.
   Section R105.2.2, Repairs is hereby amended to read a follows:
   Section R105.2.2 Repairs. Application or notice to the Building Inspector is
not required for ordinary repairs to structures, replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently
installed receptacles. Such repairs shall not include:
   1.   The cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof.
   2.   The removal or cutting of any structural beam or load-bearing support.
   3.   The removal or change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement
of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements.
   4.   Any ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replace or
relocation of any water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, solid,
waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring.
   5.    Mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   Section R105.2.3, Public service agencies is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Section R105.2.3 Public service agencies. A permit shall not be required for
the installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission,
distribution, metering or other related equipment that is under the ownership
and control of public service agencies by established right.
   Section R105.3, Application for permit of the Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
   R105.3 Application for permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished by the Building
and Zoning Department for that purpose. Such application shall:
   1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
   2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
   3. Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
   4. Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as
required in Section R106.1 and pay the fees set by ordinance of the City
Council and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. Where work for which a permit is required is started
prior to obtaining said permit, the Building Official/Agent may at his/her
discretion issue a stop work order until said permit is obtained and shall levy
a penalty in addition to the regular permit fee in the amount of one hundred
($100.00) dollars.
   5. State the valuation of the proposed work.
   6. Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant's authorized agent.
   7. Give such other data and information as required by the Building
Official/Agent.
   8. For new construction or for existing structures where exterior dimensions
are changed, provide a Certificate of Lot Survey, signed by a Registered Land
Surveyor licensed in the State of Nebraska, certifying that the lot has been
accurately surveyed and that each lot corner has been well and accurately
staked and marked, providing the front, side and rear yard dimensions requested
are less than 125% of minimum yard requirements.
   Additional requirements for applications may include:
   1. Submit a drainage plan based upon a ten year storm event prepared by a
Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any proposed use which has a new
roof area in excess of 10,000 square feet or a combination of new roof and new
paved parking in excess of 20,000 square feet. The report shall include an
evaluation of the ability of the proposed water courses, drainage tiles, storm
sewers, culverts and other improvements pertaining to drainage or flood control
to handle the runoff generated by the development of the land within and above
the tract for which the permit is required and the impact of such drainage on
downstream drainage systems. The drainage report must be approved prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
   2. Provide the estimated daily and peak hourly flow as well as the estimated
BOD of the waste as prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for
any proposed use which has an estimated five-day BOD greater than 250 parts per
million by weight or a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C).
   3. Submit a water distribution report for any proposed use which will
require a new or upsized meter and/or service of two inches (2") or larger and
shall provide estimated annual, peak day, and peak hour use. The water
distribution report must be approved prior to issuance of the building permit.
   4. Provide an erosion control plan for both during and after construction as
prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any development or
expansion which involves grading (fill or excavation) of any area greater than
20,000 square feet.
   Section R105.5, Expiration of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   R105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced;
provided, however, that no permit shall be valid after two (2) years from the
date of issue.
   Section R107.3, Temporary power of the Code is hereby deleted. The State of
Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Table R301.2(1), Design criteria inserted in table.
 
   TABLE R301.2(1)
   CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
        WIND DESIGN                      SUBJECT TO DAMAGE
                                         FROM                         ICE
GROU                              SEISMI                        WINT  BARRI
ND                                C                             ER    ER           AIR    MEAN
SNOW Speed Topogr  Special Win    DES           Frost           DESIG UNDE  FLOOD  FREEZI ANNU
LOAD (mph  aphic   Wind    dborne IGN    Weat   Line  Termite   N     RLAY  HAZARD NG     AL
    )     Effects Region  Debris CATEG  hering Depth           TEMP  MENT         INDEX  TEMP
                           Zone   ORY                                 REQUI
                                                                      RED

25   115   No      No      No     A      Sever  36 "  Mod erate -4    Yes   * *    1062   52.3
                                         e
 
**refer to the Red Willow County Flood Plain Administrator
   Section R313, Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems of the Code is hereby omitted
in its entirety for townhouses and one- and two-family dwellings.
   Section R403, Footings shall have a minimum depth of thirty-six (36) inches
for frost protection.
   Section R403.1.4.1, Frost protection of the Code is hereby amended as
follows:
   Section R403.1.4.1, Frost protection. Carports to follow manufactures
instructions.
   Section R502.11.4, Truss design drawings of the Code is hereby amended as
follows:
   Section R502.11.4, Truss design drawings is hereby deleted in its entirety
due to being engineered designed.
(Ord. 2005-2733, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2999, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.040 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   The International Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as
the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is hereby amended,
altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 106.6.2, Fee schedule of the Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Any person desiring a plumbing permit shall at the time of filing an
application therefore pay to the City of McCook a fee set by ordinance of the
City Council and set forth in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
   Section 608.16.4.2, of the code is hereby deleted.
   Section 608.17.5, Connections to lawn irrigation systems is hereby amended
to read as follows:
   Section 608.17.5 Connections to lawn irrigation systems. The potable water
supply to lawn irrigation systems shall be protected against backflow by a
check valve, an atmospheric-type vacuum breaker, a pressure-type vacuum breaker
assembly, or a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly. Valves
shall not be installed downstream from an atmospheric vacuum breaker. Where
chemicals are introduced into the system, the potable water supply shall be
protected against backflow by a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly.
   Section 903.1, Roof extension is hereby amended to read as follows:
   903.1 Roof extension. Open vent pipes that extend through a roof shall be
terminated not less than 12 inches above the roof, except that where a roof is
to be used for any purpose other than weather protection, the vent extensions
shall terminate not less than 7 feet above the roof.
(Ord. 2005-2734, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2009-2831, passed 9-21-2009; Ord. 2016-
2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
 
§ 150.045 LEAKING PIPES DEEMED NUISANCE.
   Leaking water, sewer, or gas pipes or fixtures, whether on public or private
property, shall be deemed a nuisance and shall forthwith be repaired upon
notice from the Building Official/Agent.
(Ord. 2005-2734, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.050 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as
the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is hereby amended,
altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 106.5.2, Fee Schedule of the Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Any person desiring a mechanical permit shall at the time of filing an
application therefore pay to the City of McCook a fee set by ordinance of the
City Council and set forth herein in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2005-2735, passed 8-1-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.055 MECHANICAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Mechanical work shall not be commenced until a permit has been issued by the
Building Official/Agent. Permits are not required for any portable heating or
cooling or ventilation equipment nor for any replacement of any mechanical
fixture with a new fixture of the same type and capacity being replaced.
(Ord. 2005-2735, passed 8-1-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.056 AIR CONDITIONING OR REFRIGERATION EFFLUENT DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The effluent from any air conditioning or refrigeration equipment
installed in any building shall be discharged under all applicable rules and
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   The provisions of this section apply to existing installations of all
air conditioning and refrigeration equipment to be installed.
(Neb. RS 18-2307, 18-2312) (Prior Code, § 9-204) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-
2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.060 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred to as
the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is hereby amended,
altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section 101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph
thereto reading as follows:
   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Municipal Code of the
City of McCook, Nebraska, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McCook,
Nebraska, specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive, as determined by the Building Official,
shall govern.
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 106.6.2, Fee Schedule of the Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Any person desiring a mechanical permit shall at the time of filing an
application therefore pay to the City of McCook a fee set by ordinance of the
City Council and set forth herein in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
 
§ 150.070 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter
referred to as the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is
hereby amended, altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section 101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph
thereto reading as follows:
   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Municipal Code of the
City of McCook, Nebraska, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McCook,
Nebraska, specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive, as determined by the Building Official,
shall govern.
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3, Deputies of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 103.5, Fee Schedule of the Code is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Any person desiring a mechanical permit shall at the time of filing an
application therefore pay to the City of McCook a fee set by ordinance of the
City Council and set forth herein in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
   Section 302.4, Weeds is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 302.4, Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained
free from weeds or plant growth as set forth in Chapter 95, §
95.35 Weeds, Litter, Stagnant Water.
(Ord. 2005-2736, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.080 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter referred
to as the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is hereby
amended, altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section 101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section 101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph
thereto reading as follows:
   Where, in any specific case, different sections of the Municipal Code of the
City of McCook, Nebraska, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of McCook,
Nebraska, specify different materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive, as determined by the Building Official,
shall govern.
   Section 103.2, Appointment of the Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
   Section 103.3 of the Code is hereby deleted.
   Section 105.2, Work exempt from permit of the Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
   105.2 Work exempt from permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this jurisdiction. Any individual performing any specific work that has a total
value of three hundred ($300.00) dollars or less shall not be required to
obtain a permit.
   Building:
   1. Sidewalks and driveways.
   2. Painting, paneling, papering, tiling, carpeting, replacement of floor
covering, cabinets, counter tops, similar finish work, nonstructural concrete
work, siding repair, and glass replacement.
   3. Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery.
   4. Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes,
not including service systems.
   5. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   6. Replacement windows when the same size or smaller and involving no
structural changes.
   7. Roof repair and replacement if less than 25% of roof.
   8. Decks not exceeding 200 square feet in area, that are not more than 30
inches above grade at any point, are not attached to a dwelling and do not
serve the exit door required by Section R311.4.
   9. Nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and partitions not
over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
   Electrical:
   State of Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Gas:
   1. Portable heating, cooking or clothes drying appliances.
   2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   Mechanical:
   1. Portable heating appliance.
   2. Portable ventilation appliances.
   3. Portable cooling unit.
   4. Steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling
equipment regulated by this code.
   5. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
   6. Portable evaporative cooler.
   7. Self-containing refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds or less of
refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower or less.
   Plumbing:
   1. The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
provided, however, that if any concealed trap, drain pipe, water, soil, waste
or vent pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace
the same with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a
permit shall be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
   2. The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves or
fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes or fixtures.
   Section 105.2.1, Emergency Repairs is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 105.2.1 Emergency Repairs. Where equipment replacements and repairs
must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be
submitted within the next working business day to the Building Inspector.
   Section 105.2.2, Repairs is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 105.2.2, Repairs. Application or notice to the Building Inspector is
not required for ordinary repairs to structures, replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently
installed receptacles. Such repairs shall not include:
   1.   The cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof.
   2.   The removal or cutting of any structural beam or load-bearing support.
   3.   The removal or change of any required means of egress, or rearrangement
of parts of a structure affecting the egress requirements.
   4.   Any ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of, replace or
relocation of any water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, solid,
waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring.
   5.   Mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   Section 105.2.3, Public service agencies is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Section 105.2.3, Public service agencies. A permit shall not be required for
the installation, alteration or repair of generation, transmission,
distribution, metering or other related equipment that is under the ownership
and control of public service agencies by established right.
   Section 105.3, Application for permit of the Code is hereby amended to read
as follows:
   Section105.3 Application for permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall
first file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished by the
Building and Zoning Department for that purpose. Such application shall:
   1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
   2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
   3. Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
   4. Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as
required in Section R106.3 and pay the fees set by ordinance of the City
Council and set out in Chapter 38, Fee Schedule. Where work for which a permit
is required is started prior to obtaining said permit, the
   Building Official/Agent may at his/her discretion issue a stop work order
until said permit is obtained and shall levy a penalty in addition to the
regular permit fee in the amount of one hundred ($100.00) dollars.
   5. State the valuation of the proposed work.
   6. Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant's authorized agent.
   7. Give such other data and information as required by the Building
Official/Agent.
   8. For new construction or for existing structures where exterior dimensions
are changed, provide a Certificate of Lot Survey, signed by a Registered Land
Surveyor licensed in the State of Nebraska, certifying that the lot has been
accurately surveyed and that each lot comer has been well and accurately staked
and marked, providing the front, side and rear yard dimensions requested are
less than 125% of minimum yard requirements.
   Additional requirements for commercial applications:
   1. Submit a drainage plan based upon a ten year storm event prepared by a
Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any proposed use which has a new
roof area in excess of 10,000 square feet or a combination of new roof and new
paved parking in excess of 20,000 square feet. The report shall include an
evaluation of the ability of the proposed water courses, drainage tiles, storm
sewers, culverts and other improvements pertaining to drainage or flood control
to handle the runoff generated by the development of the land within and above
the tract for which the permit is required and the impact of such drainage on
downstream drainage systems. The drainage report must be approved prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
   2. Provide the estimated daily and peak hourly flow as well as the estimated
BOD of the waste as prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for
any proposed use which has an estimated five-day BOD greater than 250 parts per
million by weight or a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C).
   3. Submit a water distribution report for any proposed use which will
require a new or upsized meter and/or service of two inches (2") or larger and
shall provide estimated annual, peak day, and peak hour use. The water
distribution report must be approved prior to issuance of the building permit.
   4. Provide an erosion control plan for both during and after construction as
prepared by a Nebraska Registered Professional Engineer for any development or
expansion which involves grading (fill or excavation) of any area greater than
20,000 square feet.
   Section 105.5, Expiration is hereby amended to read as follows:
   105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its
issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced;
provided, however, that no permit shall be valid after two (2) years from the
date of issue.
   Section 107.3, Temporary power of the Code is hereby deleted. The State of
Nebraska, State Electrical Inspector regulates all electrical work.
   Section 1301.2, Applicability is hereby amended to read as follows:
   Section 1301.2, Applicability. Structures existing prior to June 11, 1951 in
which there is work involving additions, alterations or changes of occupancy
shall be made to comply with the requirements of this section or the provisions
of Chapters 6 through 10.
(Ord. 2005-2733, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.090 AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, hereinafter
referred to as the "Code", and adopted by the provision of this chapter, is
hereby amended, altered, changed, and modified as follows:
   Section C101.1, Title of the Code is hereby amended by designating the name
of the jurisdiction to be the "City of McCook, Nebraska, a municipal
corporation."
   Section C101.2, Scope of the Code is hereby amended by adding new paragraphs
thereto reading as follows:
   Any reference in this Code to "Code Official" shall mean the Building
Official. The Building Inspector and other assistants, clerks, and employees
appointed by the Building Official to administer this Code shall have such
powers as designated by the Building Official.
(Ord. 2005-2733, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.200 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, as appointed by and under the direction of the
City Manager, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions
of the Municipal Code pertaining to building construction and repair under the
direction of the City Manager. For this purpose, he or she shall have policing
powers. Under the direction of the City Manager and upon presentation of proper
credentials, the Building Inspector, or his or her duly authorized
representative, may enter at all reasonable times any building, structure, or
premise to perform any duty imposed upon the City Manager by any Building Code,
Residential Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code, Fuel Gas Code, Property
Maintenance Code, Existing Building Code, Energy Conservation Code, or Housing
Code duly adopted by reference in the Municipal Code, or any provision of the
Municipal Code.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, acting in good faith and without malice in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
personally liable and is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act or
omission in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought against the
Building Inspector, because of an alleged act or omission performed by him or
her in the enforcement of any provision of the municipal codes relating to
buildings or building construction shall be defended by the legal department of
the municipality until final termination of the proceedings. The Building
Inspector may request, and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the
discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation of other
officials of the municipality. The Building Inspector shall have additional
duties, carry out tasks, and make reports as the City Manager may prescribe
from time to time.
(Ord. 2005-2739, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.202 POWER AND AUTHORITY; STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Building Inspector shall
be the municipal official who shall have the duty of enforcing all building and
housing regulations as herein prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings
repaired, altered, built, or moved in the municipality as often as necessary to
ensure compliance with all municipal ordinances.
   (B)   Whenever any building or construction work is being done contrary to
the provisions of the codes or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Building
Inspector at his discretion, may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be done. The
notice shall state the conditions under which work is authorized to resume. Any
person shall immediately stop, or cause to be stopped, the work until
authorization is received from the Building Inspector to continue the work. If
the stop work order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop work
order within one business day. The written order may be served by any municipal
police officer.
   (C)   When any structure is in a dangerous condition or the building is
being used contrary to the provisions of the laws of the municipality, the
Building Inspector, under the direction of the City Manager, may order the use
discontinued or the structure, or portion thereof in violation, vacated as set
forth in Chapter 150, Unsafe Buildings, §
150.300 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-2739, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.204 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-102) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020)  Penalty, see §
150.999.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-234
§ 150.206 PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No building construction, alteration, repair, or demolition requiring a
permit pursuant to this chapter shall be commenced until the permit holder, or
his or her agent, shall have posted a permit card in a conspicuous place on the
front of the premises where the work is being performed. The permit card shall
be maintained in the conspicuous place by the permit holder until a certificate
of occupancy has been signed by the Building Inspector and no building shall be
occupied in any part thereof until the certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-234
§ 150.208 DUPLICATE BUILDING PERMITS TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, repair or
demolition of any building within the municipality's jurisdiction, and the
improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the
County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord.
2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.210 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   Under the direction of the City Manager, the Building Inspector, upon
notification from the permit holder or his or her agent, shall make those
inspections required in the International Building Code, International
Residential Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code,
International Fuel Gas Code, International Property Maintenance Code,
International Existing Building Code, and the International Energy Conservation
Code, and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed,
or shall notify the permit holder, or his or her agent, that the work fails to
comply with the requirements of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 2005-2739, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-
2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.212 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during the work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of persons to erect
the guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the Municipal
Police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected
and maintained as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-106) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-246
   Similar to state law provisions, see Neb. RS 16-232
§ 150.220 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   The Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board shall hear
and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the Building
Inspector relative to the application and interpretation of the codes or the
suitability of alternate materials and methods of installation. The Building
and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board shall have no authority to waive
requirements of the codes.
   (B)   Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the Building Inspector
relating to suitability of alternate materials, methods of construction, or
interpretations of any provisions of this code may appeal such decision to the
Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board by filing an appeal on
forms furnished by the Building Inspector within 30 days from the date of such
decision. Review of an application for appeal shall be based on a claim that
the true intent of the codes or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. The filing
of a completed appeals form, along with the payment of the prescribed fee,
shall be sufficient for the purpose of commencing an appeal proceeding
hereunder.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.300 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building, mobile home, shed, fence, or other human-
made structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its
condition, and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the
health of the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard;
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure; or
         (d)   Which is 50% damaged, decayed, or deteriorated from its original
condition.
   (B)   Any unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Neb. RS 16-234) (Prior Code, § 9-801) (Ord. 2009-2822, passed 3-16-2009; Ord.
2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-234
§ 150.302 PROHIBITION AGAINST UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while
it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-802) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-234
§ 150.304 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Official, the Health
Official, or the City Council shall be of the opinion that any building, mobile
home, or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall
file a written statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The City Clerk
shall thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a
copy of the determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and
shall serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by certified mail or by personal service. The notice shall
state that the building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition, and
that the condition(s) must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
   (B)   Consideration shall include, but not be limited to, the following
standards in determining whether an unsafe building or public nuisance shall be
repaired, altered, rehabilitated, demolished or removed per the inspection and
recommendation of the Building Inspector:
      (1)   If the building, mobile home, or other structure or any part
thereof can reasonably be repaired, altered, or rehabilitated so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the city code or Building Code, as amended and
adopted, it shall be ordered repaired, altered, or rehabilitated.
      (2)   If the building, mobile home, or the structure or any part thereof
is in such condition that it cannot reasonably be repaired so that it will no
longer exist in violation of the city code or Building Code, as amended and
adopted, it shall be ordered demolished or removed.
      (3)   In any case where a building, mobile home, or other structure or
any part thereof is 50% damaged, decayed or deteriorated from its original
value or structure, it shall be demolished and removed.
      (4)   In any case where a building, mobile home, or other structure or
any part thereof is a fire hazard existing in violation of the city code or
Building Code as amended or adopted, or the state statutes, including but not
limited to the Life Safety Code, it shall be demolished or removed.
   (C)   The 60 day notice may be in the following terms:
   To                                                  (owner-occupant of
premises) of the premise known and described
as
                                                                                                                .
   You are hereby notified that                                        
(describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be
an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by
                                          . The causes for this decision are
                                                (here insert the facts as to
the dangerous condition).
   You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the Building and Housing Code
Advisory and Appeals Board, by filing with the City Clerk within ten days from
the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.
   (D)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of the notice or taken an appeal from the
determination of the officer or employee finding that a dangerous building
exists within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon the person
by personal service or certified mail, the Building Inspector may, after the 60
day time period has expired, upon orders of the City Council, proceed to remedy
the condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-803) (Ord. 97-2382, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 2009-2823, passed 4-
6-2009; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.306 HEARING; APPEAL OF DECISION.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within ten days of the receipt of the notice, may in
writing to the City Clerk request a hearing before the Building and Housing
Code Advisory and Appeals Board, to present reasons why the building should not
be repaired or demolished. The Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals
Board shall grant the hearing within ten days from the date of receiving the
request. A written notice of the Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals
Board's decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail. If the Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board
rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days from the sending of the
decision to remedy the condition or demolish the building. If, after the 60-day
period, the owner has not remedied the condition or demolished the building,
the Building Inspector shall proceed to cause the work to be done.
   (B)   The property owner may appeal the decision of the Building and Housing
Code Advisory and Appeals Board to the City Council if done in writing within
seven days of the receipt of the decision of the Building and Housing Code
Advisory and Appeals Board by filing the same with the City Clerk. A hearing
shall be held before the City Council within ten days of the receipt of the
notice of appeal by the property owner. Written notice of the City Council's
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail.
   (C)   If the City Council rejects the appeal of the property owner, the
owner shall have 60 days from the sending of the decision to remedy the
condition or demolish the building. If, after the 60- day period, the owner has
not remedied the condition or demolished the building, the Building Inspector
shall proceed to cause the work to be done.
   (D)   The property owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court
for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the City Council
shall be stayed.
(Prior Code, § 9-804) (Ord. 97-2382, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-
16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.308 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of the work shall be
transmitted to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. The special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-805) (Ord. 97-2382, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-
16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MOBILE HOMES
§ 150.330 MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, to prevent the
overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, and to
facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, water, sewerage, parks,
and other public requirements, the Mobile Home Park Regulations for the city,
as published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance 1226, June 5,
1972. Three copies of the adopted Mobile Home Park Regulations shall be kept on
file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996,
passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.332 MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be adequately skirted, tied down, connected to
utilities, landscaped to promote drainage and have sidewalks and otherwise meet
all applicable codes and regulations of the city prior to issuance of a permit
of occupancy by the owner or others.
   (B)   Set-down permits fee as set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
   (C)   Permit for set-down must be obtained and paid for before the issuance
of other permits.
   (D)   No mobile home shall have any building attachments, provided that a
mobile home may have an enclosed entryway attached, such entryway to consist of
not more than 50 square feet and shall be located only at the main entry door
to the mobile home. The entryway shall not be used for any other purpose other
than as an entryway between the outdoors and the main door of the mobile home.
   (E)   Provided further that a mobile home may also have a patio or carport
cover attached to be entirely open on all sides except for the side attached to
the mobile home, and to be constructed of non-combustible materials with a
steel or metal frame. The area may never be enclosed and any enclosure must be
removed immediately upon request by the Building Inspector.
   (F)   Provided further that all attachments must be approved by the city,
meet all zoning and setback regulations, and have had a valid building permit
issued for their construction and erection before they will be allowed to be
installed and constructed.
   (G)   For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying
compliance to the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFPA 501, in effect at the time of
manufacture is required.
(Prior Code, § 9-902) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-922, 71-4610, 71-4611
§ 150.334 CONFLICT OF REGULATIONS; PREVAILING TERMS.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, or health ordinance or
code of the city existing on the effective date of this subchapter, the
provision which, in the judgment of the Health Officer, establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people, shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the
city existing on the effective date of this subchapter, this subchapter shall
be deemed to prevail, and other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-907) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-922, 71-4610, 71-4611
STRUCTURE MOVING
§ 150.350 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
structure within the municipality without written permit to do so. Application
may be made to the Building Inspector, and shall include the present and future
location of the structure to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment to be
used, a general statement of the type of repairs, remodeling, construction, or
other work that the applicant intends to do on the structure, and other
information as the Building Inspector may require. The application shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by the County Treasurer to the effect that
all the provisions regulating the moving of structures have been complied with
on the part of the owner of the real estate upon which the structure is
presently located. The applicant shall also furnish the Building Inspector with
the certificate of an insect exterminator stating that he or she inspected the
structure and found it free of termites or that any found had been effectively
exterminated. In addition, applicant shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the
Building Inspector that all plumbing and mechanical in the structure conform to
the Plumbing and Mechanical Codes of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-701) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-209, 16-210, 60-6,299
§ 150.352 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   All applications for permits to move structures into or within the city or
its extraterritorial jurisdiction made pursuant to this subchapter shall be
submitted to the City Council for review before issuance. Upon receipt of the
application, the city shall, at least two weeks in advance of the hearing
before the City Council thereon, post a written notice of the pendency of the
application and the date of the hearing thereon, which notice shall be posted
in a conspicuous place on the property to which the proposed structure is to be
moved. The notice shall state the address or location of the structure sought
to be moved. The City Council shall make its determination as to whether or not
a permit should be granted using as criteria for judgment the items set forth
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-702) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-209, 16-210, 60-6,299
§ 150.354 PREREQUISITES FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE; COST ESTIMATE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to proceed with moving along the
streets or alleys or elsewhere in the city, any structure of such height or
dimension as to come in contact with any telephone, telegraph, or electric
light wires, or poles or fixtures, or either, without first presenting to the
City Clerk a written statement duly signed by the Public Works Director, the
City Engineer, and the person or the local manager of the company whose wires
or poles or fixtures, or any of them, may be affected or disturbed as
aforesaid, setting forth the estimated expense incident to the necessary
changing, cutting, removing, raising, lowering, or handling of the wires or
poles or fixtures in the instance of each person or company so affected, also
specifying the streets and alleys to be used, and, at the same time, depositing
with the City Clerk the amount of the aforesaid estimate, and receiving a
written license and permit, and paying the City Clerk the sum set by ordinance
of the City Council and set out in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Provided, that the aforesaid estimated compensation to the person or
company whose wires or poles or fixtures may be affected by the moving of the
structure shall in nowise preclude recovery from the owner of the structure so
moved, of any and all damages that may be caused in excess of the amount
estimated and deposited as aforesaid, and which shall be paid over to the
person or company that may be entitled thereto on the completion of the
removal, and it is hereby made unlawful for anyone, except some employee or
representative of the person or company whose wires or poles or fixtures, or
any of them, may be disturbed or affected by the moving of the structure, to
attempt to, or change, cut, remove, raise or lower or handle in any way any of
the wires or poles or fixtures.
(Prior Code, § 9-703) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-209, 16-210, 60-6,299
§ 150.356 CERTIFICATE OR POLICY OF INSURANCE FOR STRUCTURE MOVING COMPANY.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of moving houses or other
structures shall provide a certificate or policy of insurance in the amount of
$1,000,000, conditioned for the payment of any damages sustained by the city
resulting from the moving of any structure over and across any street, alley,
crossing, or culvert within the city.
   (B)   Any license required by this section may be sued upon for the recovery
of any and all damages sustained by any individual or corporation, and also any
damages sustained by the city to any street, alley, culvert, or crossing caused
by the moving of any structure over the crossings or culverts, either under the
supervision of the principal or his or her agents or employees.
(Prior Code, § 9-704) (Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed
2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 16-209, 16-210, 60-6,299
ELECTRICITY
§ 150.380 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   Nebraska Statutes governing electrical licensing and inspection are
known as the Nebraska State Electrical Act, Neb. RS 81-2101 through 81-2143. No
alteration or change shall be made in the electrical wiring or apparatus
located within a building for use in connection with the production of electric
light, heat, or power, nor shall any electric wiring or apparatus be installed
in any building without first securing from the State Electrical Inspector a
permit therefore, nor shall any change be made in any wiring or apparatus after
inspection, without notifying the State Electrical Inspector and securing a
permit therefore.
   (B)   The Nebraska State Electrical Board rules consist of 19 promulgated
rules adopted by the Board to enable it to carry out its mission of public
safety through electrical licensing and inspection.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 150.382 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   The minimum electrical wiring standard shall be the 2017 National
Electrical Code, National Fire Protection Association Publication Number 70-
2017, as adopted in whole or amended in part by the State Electrical Board
which is incorporated herein by reference and filed with the Secretary of
State. The effective date of this rule is July 2, 2019.
   (B)   The provisions of the Code adopted by this section shall apply and be
enforced in the city's corporate limits and the unincorporated extraterritorial
jurisdiction beyond and adjacent to the corporate boundaries of this city with
the same force and effect as if the outlying area were within the corporate
boundaries of this city, provided no provision shall be extended or applied so
as to prohibit, prevent or interfere with the conduct of existing farming,
livestock operations, businesses, or industry.
   (C)   The State Electrical Inspector shall be the administrative authority
who shall administer and enforce the Code and shall take such actions as may be
reasonable and necessary to secure compliance with it. He or she shall appoint
such electrical inspectors, assistants, clerks, and other employees as may be
required to administer the Code and fix their compensation.
(Prior Code, § 9-402) (Ord. 1781, passed 9-16-1985; Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-
16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-922, 81-2104, 81-2124, 81-2125
CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE
§ 150.400 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person or corporation shall engage in the practice of general contractor,
building contractor, residential contractor, plumbing contractor, mechanical
contractor, roofing contractor or limited contractor in the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), without first having obtained a license to
engage in any such practice, and without giving the proof of surety as
hereinafter provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.402 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   Any owner of record of a residential structure, including the usual
accessory structures, shall be exempt from the contractor’s licensing
requirements and may be granted a building permit to improve the property and
corresponding structures, provided he or she personally purchases and installs
all materials used, and further provided, all work shall be inspected and
approved by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2021-
3032, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 2023-3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.404 CONTRACTOR LICENSE; TYPES AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person or persons desiring to engage in the practice as a contractor, or
as a limited contractor as hereinafter defined, shall first make application to
the Building Inspector for the license(s) to engage in such practice(s). The
contractor licenses and qualifications for each are as follows.
   (A)   General contractor. A general contractor shall have an unlimited scope
of work. In order to qualify as a general contractor, one of the following
requirements must be met:
      (1)   A college degree in architecture, construction science or
engineering and proof of two years’ on-the-job experience;
      (2)   A certification from a two-year program in the trade from an
accredited community college, technical school or technical college, with three
years’ documented field experience; or
      (3)   Five years’ documented field experience in the trade and proof of
passing the ICC General Building Contractor (A) exam. Documented field
experience for a general contractor application requires written certification
by the applicant that he or she has worked in the trade and has been licensed
for the same by this city or another jurisdiction for the applicable period of
time as established herein.
   (B)   Building contractor. A building contractor shall have a scope of work
limited to construction of commercial buildings, single-family dwellings,
duplex dwellings, buildings consisting of three or more townhouse units not
exceeding three stories in height, and remodeling of all structures. In order
to qualify as a building contractor, one of the following requirements must be
met:
      (1)   A college degree in architecture, construction science or
engineering and two years’ on-the-job experience;
      (2)   A certification from a two-year program in the trade from an
accredited community college, technical school or technical college, with three
years’ documented field experience; or
      (3)   Five years’ documented experience in the trade and proof of passing
the ICC Building Contractor (B) exam. Documented field experience for a
building contractor application requires written certification by the applicant
that he or she has worked in the trade and has been licensed for the same by
this city or another jurisdiction for the applicable period of time as
established herein.
   (C)   Residential contractor. A residential contractor shall have a scope of
work limited to construction of single-family dwellings, duplex dwellings,
buildings consisting of three or more townhouse units not exceeding three
stories in height, and remodeling of all structures. In order to qualify as a
residential contractor, one of the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   A certification from a one-year program in the trade from an
accredited community college, technical school or technical college with two
years’ documented field experience; or
      (2)   Three years’ documented experience in the trade and proof of
passing the ICC Residential Building Contractor (C) exam. Documented field
experience for a residential contractor application requires written
certification by the applicant that he or she has worked in the trade and has
been licensed for the same by this city or another jurisdiction for the
applicable period of time as established herein.
   (D)   Plumbing contractor. A plumbing contractor shall have an unlimited
scope of plumbing work. In order to qualify as a plumbing contractor, one of
the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   Proof of certification as a master plumber or a journeyman plumber;
      (2)   A certification from a one- or two-year program in the trade
through an accredited community college, technical school, technical college;
or
      (3)   A master’s certificate that requires five years’ documented field
experience; or a journeyman’s certificate that requires three years’ documented
field experience and proof of passing the ICC Master Plumber or Journeyman
Plumber exam. Documented field experience for a plumbing contractor application
requires written certification by the applicant that he or she has worked in
the trade and has been licensed for the same by this city or another
jurisdiction for the applicable period of time as established herein. An
apprentice plumber shall work only under the direct supervision of a certified
master plumber or a certified journeyman plumber.
   (E)   Mechanical contractor. heating, ventilation and air conditioning
(HVAC). A mechanical contractor shall have an unlimited scope of mechanical
heating, ventilation and air conditioning work. In order to qualify as a
mechanical contractor, one of the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   Proof of certification as a master or a journeyman in heating,
ventilation and air conditioning mechanics;
      (2)   A certification from a one- or two-year program in the trade
through an accredited community college, technical school, or technical
college; or
      (3)   A master’s certificate that requires five years’ documented field
experience or a journeyman’s certificate that requires three years’ documented
field experience and proof of passing the ICC Master Mechanical or Journeyman
Mechanical exam. Documented field experience for a HVAC contractor application
requires written certification by the applicant that he or she has worked in
the trade and has been licensed for the same by this city or another
jurisdiction for the applicable period of time as established herein. An
apprentice to a mechanical contractor shall work only under the direct
supervision of a certified master mechanical installer or a certified
journeyman mechanical installer.
   (F)   Roofing contractor. A roofing contractor shall be authorized to
install, repair and replace residential and commercial roof coverings. In order
to qualify as a roofing contractor, one of the following requirements must be
met:
      (1)   Proof of passing the ICC Roofing Contractor exam; or
      (2)   Two years’ documented field experience in the trade. Documented
field experience for a roofing contractor application requires written
certification by the applicant that he or she has worked in the trade and has
been licensed for the same by this city or another jurisdiction for the
applicable period of time as established herein.
   (G)   Limited contractor. A limited contractor license may be issued for
each of the following types of work: concrete, demolition, excavation, fencing,
roofing, sign installation and structure moving. A limited contractor must have
two years’ documented field experience in the trade for which a license is
sought. Documented field experience requires written certification by the
applicant that he or she has worked in the trade and has been licensed for the
same by this city or another jurisdiction for the applicable period of time as
established herein.
   (H)   Where a lawful contractor’s license exists at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this subchapter, it may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful.
(Ord. 2023-3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.406 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS; TERM AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring a contractor’s license to perform work
within the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) shall complete an
application and provide the required evidence of relevant education,
experience, skills, and proficiency. All contractor license applications shall
be accompanied by an application fee, as specified in
Chapter 38, Fee Schedule, Appendix M. The application fee is non-refundable.
   (B)   All applicants for a contractor’s license shall submit an application
to the Building Inspector. Those applicants that meet the requirements of §
150.404 shall be issued a contractor’s license. The Building Inspector shall
have 14 days for review. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified by certified
mail. Any person whose application is disapproved must wait a minimum of 45
days before they can reapply. Reapplication shall be accompanied by an
additional application fee.
   (C)   All contractor’s licenses issued by the Building Inspector shall be
valid for a one-year term, beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of every
year. The city will not prorate any license fee, regardless of when the license
is purchased. All licenses shall be renewable annually, as in the case of an
original license, on or before December 31 of every year. Renewals received
after January 31 will be subject to the initial license fee.
   (D)   An applicant that has been denied a contractor’s license by the
Building Inspector may file an appeal to the Building and Housing Code Advisory
and Appeals Board. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days by filing with the
Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken, and with the Building and
Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken shall
forthwith transmit to the Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board
all the papers constituting the record of the action appealed. The Building and
Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
      (1)   The Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board shall have
the power to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building Inspector,
based on or made in the enforcement of the requirements of the contractor’s
license.
      (2)   Notice of public hearing shall be given as described above. The
public hearing shall be held, at which any party may appear in person, by agent
or by attorney. The Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board shall
make findings that the requirements of this section have been met by the
applicant for a contractor’s license. The Building and Housing Code Advisory
and Appeals Board shall further make a finding that the reasons set forth in
the application justify the granting of a contractor's license.
      (3)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Building and Housing Code Advisory and Appeals Board, may
appeal as provided by Neb. RS 19-912.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.408 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person or company applying for a contractor’s license shall present to
the Building Inspector, to be filed, a certificate or policy of insurance with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 for each occurrence (combined single limit of
bodily injury and property damage), a minimum limit of $1,000,000 aggregate for
products-completed operations, with a minimum limit of $2,000,000 general
aggregate. This general aggregate limit shall apply separately to the
contractor's work under this agreement. Further, the issuing insurance company
shall agree to provide 30 days’ written notice in the event of expiration or of
proposed cancellation of the insurance policy as the city is listed as the
certificate holder. Surety shall be conditioned that the principal, and all
employees, will comply with all the ordinances of the city relating to model
codes, and hold the city harmless on account of any damages arising from faulty
performance or neglect of duty by the holder of the license.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.410 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by
the Building Inspector upon proof that the licensee(s) has failed, neglected,
or refused to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter, or with
other ordinances of the city relating to or regulating the particular type of
work for which the license was granted. No license shall be revoked without the
giving of a written notice of the intention to revoke the license, and without
giving the licensee a full opportunity to be heard before the Building and
Housing Code Advisory Board as to any complaint made against him or her. Upon
the revocation of any license granted under the provisions of this subchapter,
no refund shall be made of any part of the license fee previously paid by the
licensee.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.412 UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE.
   No license issued hereunder shall be assignable or transferable, and it
shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit its license to be used or allow
permits to be taken out in the name of the licensee by any other person, firm,
or corporation.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.414 RECORDS RETENTION.
   The Building and Zoning Department shall keep a complete record of all
licenses issued, and a certificate or policy of insurance registered under the
provisions of this subchapter, and shall cause suitable records of all official
actions taken hereunder to be kept and preserved.
(Ord. 2016-2928, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2023-
3062, passed 3-6-2023)
PENALTY
§ 150.999 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for the violation shall be in any amount
not to exceed $1,000 and/or imprisonment for any length of time not to exceed
three months, in the discretion of the court, provided whenever any section of
this chapter shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be
penalized by a fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-1201)
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-1202) (Ord. 2003-2650, passed 1-20-2003; Ord. 2016-2928,
passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 2020-2996, passed 2-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 18-1914, 18-1918, 29-835, 48-434, 48-442, 48-2114,
60-6,299, 71-4608, 71-4631, 71-4632
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the
overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the city, as
published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance No. 2013-2897,
November 18, 2013. Three copies of the adopted Zoning Regulations shall be kept
on file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 2016-2931, passed 5-16-2016)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, or prosperity; to insure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality;
and, to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the Subdivision Regulations for the city, as
published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance No. 2014-2900,
January 20, 2014. Three copies of the adopted Subdivision Regulations shall be
kept on file with the City Clerk and available for inspection by any member of
the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 2016-2932, passed 5-16-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Granting a franchise to Horizon Communication Corp. for the term of 20 years to
-    - -    provide CATV services. (Prior Code, §§ 10-801 through 10-816; Appendix IX, CATV
            Rates)
            Granting a franchise to Kansas-Nebraska Natural Gas Company, Inc., for the term
-    - -    of 25 years to provide natural gas services. (Prior Code, §§ 10-901 through 10-
            910; Appendix X, Natural Gas Rates)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section             Code Section
1-605                       90.25
6-207                       94.29
9-646                       117.02
11-101                      30.060
11-103 - 11-118             30.002
11-104                      30.002
11-105                      30.002
11-109                      30.002
11-110                      30.002
11-111                      30.002
11-112                      30.002
11-113                      30.002
11-114                      30.002
11-115                      30.002
11-116                      30.002
11-117                      30.002
11-118                      30.002
13-403                      31.59
13-504                      33.02
13-505                      33.02
13-506                      33.02,
                            33.03
13-507                      33.03
13-508                      33.04
13-509                      33.04
13-511                      33.03
13-518 - 13-522             33.03,
                            33.04
13-903                      33.25
16-101                      31.01
16-115                      30.041,
                            31.02
16-201                      31.03
                            36.01 -
                            36.06,
                            113.02,
16-205                      113.03,
                            113.30 -
                            113.38,
                            114.01 -
                            114.09
                            90.05,
16-206                      90.25,
                            90.28,
                            90.29
                            31.57,
                            31.58,
                            94.27,
                            94.30,
                            94.32 -
16-207                      94.34,
                            96.05,
                            96.06,
                            96.22,
                            96.25 -
                            96.27
                            94.31,
                            94.33,
16-209                      150.350,
                            150.352,
                            150.354,
                            150.356
                            31.57,
                            31.58,
                            94.28 -
                            94.30,
                            94.32 -
16-210                      94.34,
                            94.36,
                            150.350,
                            150.352,
                            150.354,
                            150.356
16-219                      30.002
                            53.01,
                            91.02,
16-222                      91.11,
                            91.19 -
                            91.22
                            30.043,
                            51.999,
16-225                      52.10,
                            53.15,
                            95.99,
                            131.99
16-226                      91.07
                            91.08,
                            91.55,
                            95.20,
                            95.21,
16-227                      95.23,
                            95.99,
                            130.01,
                            130.31,
                            130.99
                            95.20,
                            95.21,
                            95.23,
16-228                      95.24,
                            95.99,
                            130.01,
                            130.31,
                            130.99
16-230                      94.33
                            96.05,
16-231                      96.24 -
                            96.27
                            51.004,
16-232                      94.34,
                            94.36,
                            150.212
16-233                      54.049
                            150.204,
16-234                      150.206,
                            150.300,
                            150.302
16-235                      90.01,
                            90.23
16-236                      90.30,
                            90.99
                            30.043,
16-238                      35.045,
                            35.046
                            54.045,
16-239                      54.049,
                            54.053
16-240                      90.02,
                            90.05
                            54.130,
16-241                      54.131,
                            54.135
16-242 - 16-245             54.082
                            54.080,
                            54.088,
                            54.095,
16-244                      54.115 -
                            54.120,
                            54.136,
                            54.137
                            54.080,
                            54.081,
                            54.083 -
                            54.101,
                            54.115 -
16-245                      54.120,
                            54.132,
                            54.134,
                            54.136,
                            54.137,
                            54.999
                            10.99,
                            51.021,
                            51.055,
                            51.056,
                            52.08,
                            54.045,
                            54.049,
                            54.053,
16-246                      91.11,
                            113.01 -
                            113.03,
                            113.30 -
                            113.38,
                            131.01 -
                            131.03,
                            131.99,
                            150.212
16-247                      10.15,
                            31.04
                            54.002,
                            96.05,
16-248                      96.06,
                            96.22,
                            96.24 -
                            96.27
                            72.51,
16-253                      96.25 -
                            96.27
16-304                      30.002
16-305                      30.022
                            30.045,
16-308                      30.046,
                            30.048,
                            53.01
16-309                      53.01
16-310                      30.075
16-317                      30.040,
                            94.10
16-318(3)                   30.037
16-318.01                   30.022
16-319                      30.036
16-320                      30.042
16-321                      30.042,
                            94.09
16-322                      30.042
16-323                      30.043
16-323                      53.15
16-401                      31.23
16-402                      31.23
                            31.24,
16-403                      32.01,
                            32.02
                            32.01,
                            32.03,
16-404                      32.04,
                            32.06,
                            32.09
16-405                      32.06,
                            32.07
16-406                      31.26
16-501                      33.50
16-503                      31.19,
                            33.51
                            31.55,
                            31.57,
                            94.26,
16-609                      94.28 -
                            94.30,
                            94.34,
                            94.40
16-613                      32.05
16-614                      94.25
16-617                      94.26
16-624                      94.37
16-645                      94.26
                            94.04 -
16-661                      94.08,
                            94.12,
                            94.13
                            94.03,
16-662                      94.07,
                            94.08,
                            94.12
16-663                      94.01,
                            94.02
16-664                      94.09
16-666                      94.09
16-675                      52.01
                            51.001 -
                            51.006,
                            51.020 -
                            51.022,
                            51.035,
                            51.037 -
                            51.041,
                            51.070 -
                            51.075,
                            51.090 -
                            51.096,
                            51.999,
16-681                      52.02 -
                            52.04,
                            52.06,
                            52.07,
                            52.09,
                            52.11,
                            52.12,
                            52.25 -
                            52.27,
                            52.29,
                            52.30,
                            52.45 -
                            52.48
16-682                      52.47
16-695                      54.065
16-695 - 16-697.02          54.001,
                            54.015
16-696                      54.065,
                            54.066
16-697.01                   54.015
16-699                      36.05
16-702                      33.20
16-704                      33.23
16-706                      33.24
16-712                      33.25
16-712 - 16-721             33.39
16-713                      33.36
16-714                      33.37
16-715                      33.37
16-716                      33.38
16-717                      30.037
16-719                      30.037
16-721                      33.24
16-722                      33.01
16-726                      33.25
16-726 - 16-729             33.24
16-901                      95.19
16-1001 - 16-1019           37.60
16-1020 - 16-1042           37.61
16-1039                     37.61
17-503                      31.56
17-502.01                   31.56
17-555                      95.02
17-563                      95.35
17-604                      30.002
17-702                      33.21
18-132                      35.048,
                            91.01
18-305 - 18-312             30.076
18-1001 - 18-1006           31.03,
                            31.56
18-1214                     33.22
18-1719                     95.35,
                            95.99
                            10.99,
                            70.99,
                            91.99,
                            94.99,
                            95.01 -
                            95.03,
18-1720                     95.19,
                            95.99,
                            96.05,
                            96.22,
                            96.24,
                            118.99,
                            130.99
                            10.99,
                            70.99,
                            91.99,
18-1722                     94.99,
                            95.99,
                            118.99,
                            130.99
18-1736                     72.16
                            72.16,
18-1737                     72.17,
                            72.24
                            72.15,
18-1738                     72.18,
                            72.23
18-1738.01                  72.19,
                            72.23
18-1738.02                  72.18,
                            72.19
                            72.16,
18-1739                     72.17,
                            72.20
18-1740                     72.21
18-1741                     72.22
18-1741.01                  72.15,
                            72.23
18-1741.02                  Ch. 38, App. G;
                            72.25
18-1741.04                  72.23
18-1741.06                  72.23
18-1743                     150.208
18-1748                     51.110,
                            94.39
18-1755                     31.59
18-1914                     150.999
18-1918                     150.999
18-2101 - 18-2144           35.015
18-2101.01                  35.015
18-2307                     150.056
18-2312                     150.056
Ch. 18, Art. 25             31.42
18-2501 - 18-2511           31.42
Ch. 19, Art. 6              30.005
19-611                      32.01
19-612(2)                   31.40
                            30.040,
19-615                      31.23,
                            33.51
19-616                      30.075,
                            30.076
19-617                      30.005,
                            31.23
                            30.020,
                            30.037,
                            30.040,
19-618                      30.042,
                            30.045,
                            30.048,
                            52.01,
                            53.01
19-620                      30.020,
                            30.075
19-645 - 19-648             30.035
19-646                      94.11
19-907 - 19-910             35.030
19-908                      35.001
19-912                      150.406
                            150.332,
19-922                      150.334,
                            150.382
19-924 - 19-929             35.001
19-929                      35.001
19-1101                     30.037,
                            30.039
19-1102 - 19-1104           30.040
19-1103                     30.037,
                            30.039
19-1104                     30.039
19-1301                     33.21
                            33.21,
19-1302                     54.045,
                            54.049,
                            54.053
19-1303                     33.21
19-1304                     33.21
19-1305                     52.01
19-1710                     95.03
19-2101 - 19-2106           55.02
19-2105                     115.01
                            55.01,
19-2106                     55.04 -
                            55.08
19-2428 - 19-2431           94.37
19-2903                     33.05
19-2904                     33.05
19-2905                     33.05
19-2906 - 19-2909           33.05
19-4301                     112.13
20-301 - 20-344             92.01
25-510.02(2)                31.02
25-1801                     50.99
26-230                      95.35
28-401                      92.02
28-431                      130.32
                            91.13,
28-519                      130.01,
                            130.99
28-906                      90.26,
                            130.34
28-907                      91.18
                            91.12,
28-908                      91.14,
                            91.17
28-1009                     130.34
28-1229                     91.56
29-401                      30.043
29-422                      70.18
29-424                      70.18
29-835                      150.999
29-4001.01                  130.16
29-4003                     130.16,
                            130.17
29-4013                     130.17
Ch. 32                      31.40
32-505                      31.40
33-141                      30.037
35-520                      91.18
45-106                      30.038
46-1212                     31.60
48-434                      150.999
48-442                      150.999
48-2114                     150.999
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-14,103.01 - 49-14,103.03 30.076
51-209                      54.031
51-211                      54.028,
                            54.029
51-215                      33.21
51-216                      33.21
52-601.01                   130.32
54-606                      90.20
54-617                      90.33
54-618                      90.34
54-619                      90.35
54-620                      90.36
54-621                      90.37
Ch. 60                      70.01
60-3.113                    72.17
60-135.01                   75.01
60-136                      95.02
60-169                      130.32
60-301 - 60-335             72.37
60-323                      72.09
60-329 - 60-339             33.22
60-376                      130.32
60-435                      70.15
                            70.02,
                            70.16,
                            70.19,
                            70.20,
                            71.16,
                            72.01,
                            72.03 -
60-680                      72.07,
                            72.09,
                            72.35,
                            72.37,
                            72.50,
                            72.51; Ch. 74, Sch.
                            I,
                            II
60-683                      70.16
60-699                      75.08
60-6,114                    72.08
60-6,119 - 60-6,121         70.02
60-6,165                    72.50
60-6,166                    72.04,
                            91.15
                            72.01,
60-6,167                    72.03,
                            72.04
60-6,168                    72.02
60-6,183                    91.17
60-6,184                    91.16
60-6,186                    71.01
                            71.01,
60-6,190                    71.02;
                            Ch. 73, Sch. I
60-6,250                    94.31
60-6,294                    94.31
                            150.350,
                            150.352,
60-6,299                    150.354,
                            150.356,
                            150.999
60-1901 - 60-1911           130.32
60-1901                     130.32
60-1902                     130.32
60-1903                     130.32
60-1903.01                  130.32
60-1903.02                  130.32
60-1904                     130.32
60-1905                     130.32
60-1906                     130.32
60-1907                     130.32
60-1908                     130.32
60-1909                     130.32
60-2410                     130.32
60-3113                     72.16
60-6,356                    75.03
60-6,356(2)(b)              75.02
60-6,356(3)                 75.03,
                            75.04
60-6,356(5)                 75.07
60-6,359                    75.05
60-6,361                    75.08
61-1903                     130.32
70-624.04                   30.076
70-1602                     50.02
70-1605                     50.02
70-1606                     50.02
70-1607                     50.02
70-1608 - 70-1614           50.02
70-1615                     50.02
71-4401                     90.20
71-4401 - 71-4412           90.40 -
                            90.45
71-4603                     130.32
71-4608                     150.999
71-4610                     150.332,
                            150.334
71-4611                     150.332,
                            150.334
71-4631                     150.999
71-4632                     150.999
73-102                      33.52
77-1343                     94.37
77-2201                     30.037
77-2201 - 77-2215           30.037
77-2202                     30.037,
                            30.038
77-2203                     30.038
77-2209                     30.037
77-2210                     30.037
77-2210 - 77-2212           30.038
77-2212                     30.037
77-2337                     33.21
77-2339                     33.21
77-2341                     33.39
81-502                      91.01
                            91.03 -
81-512                      91.06,
                            91.10
81-520.01                   91.09
81-1175 - 81-1177           35.076
81-1176                     34.40
81-2101 - 81-2143           150.380
81-2104                     150.382
81-2124                     150.382
81-2125                     150.382
81-3423                     31.60
81-3445                     31.60
81-3449 - 81-3453           31.60
84-1408                     31.16
84-1409(2)                  31.15
                            31.16,
84-1411                     31.18,
                            31.21
84-1412                     31.19,
                            31.22
84-1413                     31.19
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
1-101              31.01
1-102              31.02
1-103              31.03
1-104              31.04
1-201              30.001
1-202              30.003
1-203              30.004
1-204              30.005
1-301              30.020
1-302              30.021
1-303              30.035
1-304              30.036
1-306              30.037
1-307              30.037
1-308              30.038
1-309              30.039
1-310              30.038
1-311              30.040
1-312              30.040
1-313              30.042
1-314              30.042
1-315              30.043
1-317              30.044
1-318              30.045
1-319              30.046
1-320              30.048
1-321              30.049
1-322              30.050
1-323              30.022
1-402              30.002
1-403              30.060
1-501              30.041
1-601              31.15
1-602              31.15
1-603              31.16
1-604              31.17
1-605              31.18
1-606              31.19
1-607              31.20
1-608              31.21
1-609              31.22
1-610              31.23
1-611              31.24
1-612              31.25
1-613              31.26
1-701              32.01
1-702              32.02
1-703              32.03
1-704              32.04
1-705              32.05
1-706              32.06
1-707              32.06
1-708              32.07
1-709              32.09
1-801              31.40
1-806              31.41
1-901              33.01
1-902              33.02
1-906              33.20
1-908              33.24
1-909              33.24
1-910              33.21
1-911              33.25
1-912              33.36
1-913              33.37
1-914              33.37
1-915              33.38
1-917              33.53
1-918              33.50
1-919              33.51
1-923              33.52
1-927              33.54
1-928              33.22
1-1001             30.075
1-1002             30.076
1-1003             30.077
1-1101             31.42
                   30.999,
                   31.99,
1-1201             32.99,
                   33.99,
                   34.99
2-101              35.001
2-102              35.030
2-103              35.045
2-105              35.002
2-107              35.035
2-110              35.031
2-111              35.032
2-112              35.033
2-201              35.075
2-202              35.076
2-203              35.076
2-204              35.077
2-205              35.078
2-206              35.079
2-207              35.080
2-208              35.080
2-209              35.081
2-210              35.082
3-101              52.01
3-102              52.02
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.03
3-105              52.05
3-106              52.03
3-107              52.25
3-108              52.26
3-109              52.27
3-112              52.46
3-113              52.47
3-115              52.48
3-116              52.07
3-117              52.12
3-118              52.09
3-119              52.04
3-120              52.06
3-121              52.10
3-122              52.08
3-123              52.29
3-124              52.30
3-125              52.11
3-128              52.60
3-128.01           52.61
3-128.02           52.62
3-128.03           52.63
3-128.04           52.64
3-128.05           52.65
3-128.06           52.99
3-128.07           52.66
3-201              51.001
3-202              51.020
3-203              51.002
3-204              51.004
3-205              51.021
3-206              51.005
3-207              51.006
3-208              51.022
3-209              51.999
3-210              51.035
3-210.01           51.036
3-211              51.037
3-212              51.038
3-213              51.039
3-214              51.040
3-215              51.041
3-216              51.041
3-217              51.038
3-218              51.003
3-219              51.003
3-220              51.003
3-221              51.055
3-222              51.055
3-223              51.056
3-224              51.057
3-225              51.070
3-226              51.071
3-227              51.072
3-228              51.073
3-229              51.074
3-231              51.075
3-232              51.091
3-233              51.092
3-234              51.093
3-235              51.094
3-236              51.095
3-237              51.096
3-238              51.094
3-240              51.999
3-241              51.110
3-301              53.01
3-401              53.15
3-501              54.001
3-502              54.002
3-601              54.015
3-602              54.016
3-701              54.025
3-702              54.026
3-703              54.027
3-704              54.028
3-705              54.029
3-706              54.029
3-707              54.030
3-708              54.031
3-801              55.02
3-901              54.045
3-902              54.046
3-903              54.047
3-904              54.048
3-905              54.049
3-906              54.050
3-907              54.051
3-908              54.052
3-909              54.053
3-910              54.054
3-912              54.055
3-1002             54.080
3-1003             54.081
3-1004             54.082
3-1005             54.083
3-1006             54.084
3-1007             54.084
3-1008             54.085
3-1009             54.086
3-1010             54.087
3-1012             54.088
3-1013             54.088
3-1016             54.089
3-1017             54.090
3-1018             54.090
3-1019             54.091
3-1021             54.092
3-1022             54.093
3-1023             54.094
3-1024             54.095
3-1025             54.096
3-1026             54.097
3-1028             54.098
3-1031             54.099
3-1033             54.100
3-1034             54.101
3-1035             54.115
3-1036             54.115
3-1037             54.116
3-1039             54.117
3-1041             54.118
3-1042             54.120
3-1043             54.119
3-1048             54.130
3-1049             54.131
3-1050             54.132
3-1051             54.133
3-1052             54.134
3-1053             54.135
3-1054             54.136
3-1055             54.137
3-1056             54.999
3-1101             50.99
3-1102             50.02
3-1103             50.01
3-1201             56.01
3-1202             56.02
3-1302             54.999
4-101              35.046
4-102              35.047
4-103              35.048
4-104              35.049
4-201              55.01
4-202              55.05
4-203              55.06
4-205              55.08
4-206              55.07
4-207              55.04
4-301              95.01
4-302              95.02
4-303              95.03
4-304              95.19
4-401              95.35
4-401              95.99
4-501              96.01
4-502              96.02
4-503              96.03
4-504              96.04
4-505              96.05
4-506              96.06
4-507              96.07
4-508              96.20
4-509              96.21
4-510              96.08
4-511              96.22
4-512              96.23
4-513              96.24
4-514              96.25
4-515              96.26
4-516              96.27
4-601              95.20
4-602              95.21
4-603              95.22
4-604              95.23
4-605              95.24
4-606              95.99
4-701              95.99
4-702              95.99
5-101              70.01
5-213              70.02
5-306              71.01
5-307              71.02
5-331              71.16
5-401              70.15
5-402              70.16
5-403              70.16
5-404              70.17
5-405              70.18
5-406              70.19
5-407              70.20
5-606              71.15
5-1001             72.02
5-1002             72.01
5-1003             72.03
5-1004             72.03
5-1005             72.04
5-1006             72.04
5-1007             72.04
5-1008             72.04
5-1009             72.04
5-1010             72.04
5-1011             72.04
5-1012             72.04
5-1013             72.16
5-1013.01          72.17
5-1013.02          72.15
5-1013.03          72.18
5-1013.04          72.19
5-1013.05          72.20
5-1013.06          72.21
5-1013.07          72.22
5-1013.08          72.23
5-1013.09          72.24
5-1014             72.06
5-1018             72.06
5-1019             72.09
5-1020             72.35
5-1021             72.35
5-1022             72.35
5-1023             72.05
5-1024             72.04
5-1025             72.37
5-1026             72.37
5-1027             72.37
5-1028             72.08
5-1029             72.07
5-1031             72.51
5-1032             72.51
5-1033             72.36
5-1034             72.50
5-1101             70.99
5-1102             70.99
6-101              90.20
6-104              90.23
6-107              90.26
6-108              90.27
6-109              90.28
6-110              90.29
6-111              90.30
6-301              90.01
6-302              90.02
6-304              90.03
6-305              90.04
6-306              90.05
6-307              90.06
6-308              90.07
6-402              130.30
6-408              130.31
6-409              130.01
6-409              130.99
6-411              130.32
6-412              130.99
6-413              130.99
6-601              131.01
6-602              131.02
6-603              131.03
6-604              131.99
6-701              54.065
6-702              54.066
6-703              54.999
6-801              118.01
6-802              118.02
6-803              118.03
6-804              118.15
6-804.01           118.16
6-805              118.30
6-805.01           118.31
6-805.02           118.31
6-805.03           118.32
6-805.04           118.33
6-806              118.34
6-807              118.35
6-807.01           118.36
6-808              118.37
6-809              118.38
6-809.01           118.38
6-809.02           118.39
6-810              118.50
6-810.01           118.50
6-811              118.51
6-812              118.52
6-812.01           118.53
6-812.02           118.54
6-812.03           118.55
6-812.04           118.56
6-813              118.04
6-901              118.99
6-902              118.99
7-101              91.11
7-102              91.14
7-103              91.13
7-104              91.12
7-105              91.15
7-106              91.14
7-107              91.16
7-108              91.17
7-109              91.18
7-110              91.17
7-111              91.19
7-112              91.20
7-113              91.21
7-114              91.22
7-203              91.02
7-206              91.04
7-207              91.04
7-208              91.05
7-209              91.06
7-210              91.10
7-211              91.07
7-212              91.08
7-213              91.09
7-301              91.55
7-302              91.56
7-401              91.35
7-402              91.36
7-403              91.37
7-404              91.38
7-405              91.39
7-406              91.40
7-407              91.41
7-408              91.42
7-501              91.99
7-502              91.99
8-101              31.55
8-102              31.56
8-103              31.57
8-104              31.57
8-105              31.58
8-106              31.59
8-107              31.60
8-201              94.01
8-202              94.02
8-203              94.03
8-204              94.03
8-205              94.04
8-206              94.05
8-207              94.06
8-208              94.07
8-209              94.08
8-210              94.09
8-211              94.09
8-212              94.10
8-213              94.11
8-214              94.12
8-215              94.12
8-216              94.13
8-301              94.25
8-302              94.26
8-303              94.27
8-304              94.28
8-305              94.29
8-306              94.30
8-307              94.31
8-308              94.32
8-309              94.33
8-310              94.34
8-311              94.34
8-312              94.35
8-313              94.36
8-314              94.37
8-315              94.38
8-316              94.39
8-401              94.40
8-501              94.99
8-502              94.99
9-102              150.204
9-103              150.206
9-106              150.212
9-203              150.208
9-204              150.056
9-402              150.382
9-411              91.23
9-610              92.01
9-611              92.02
9-612              92.03
9-613              92.04
9-614              92.05
9-615              92.06
9-616              92.07
9-617              92.08
9-701              150.350
9-702              150.352
9-703              150.354
9-704              150.356
9-801              150.300
9-802              150.302
9-803              150.304
9-804              150.306
9-805              150.308
9-902              150.332
9-907              150.334
9-1201             150.999
9-1202             150.999
10-117             111.01
10-601             150.330
10-701             113.01
10-702             113.02
10-706             113.02
10-707             113.30 -
                   113.36
10-708             113.37
10-709             113.38
10-711             113.03
10-1001            115.01
10-1101            114.01
10-1102            114.02
10-1103            114.03
10-1104            114.04
10-1105            114.05
10-1106            114.06
10-1107            114.07
10-1108            114.08
10-1109            114.09
10-1501            36.01
10-1502            36.02
10-1503            36.03
10-1504            36.04
10-1505            36.05
10-1506            36.05
10-1507            36.06
10-1701            116.01
10-1702            116.02
10-1703            116.03
10-1704            116.04
10-1705            116.05
10-1706            116.06
10-1801            117.01
10-1802            117.01
11-101             151.01
11-201             152.01
12-101             37.01
12-102             37.02
12-103             37.03
12-104             37.03
12-105             37.04
12-106             37.05
12-107             37.06
12-201             37.20
12-202             37.21
12-203             37.21
12-204             37.22
12-205             37.23
12-206             37.24
12-207             37.25
12-208             37.26
12-209             37.24
12-210             37.27
12-301             37.40
12-302             37.41
12-303             37.42
12-304             37.43
12-305             37.44
12-305             37.45
12-305             37.46
12-306             37.47
12-307             37.48
2-301              35.999,
                   54.999
1-1201             35.999,
                   54.999
3-1301             35.999,
                   54.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1179     3-22-1983   Ch. 38, App. G
1248     10-7-1985   Ch. 38, App. G
91-07    1-6-1992    Ch. 38, App. A
93-10    11-1-1993   Ch. 38, App. A
95-07    4-3-1995    Ch. 38, App. G
2007-20  9-17-2007   Ch. 38, App. A
2016-17  10-17-2016  Ch. 38, App. N
2017-05  3-6-2017    Ch. 38, App. N
2021-01  - -2021     Ch. 74, Sch. I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
–       - -         T.S.O. I
–       - -         T.S.O. I
1662      9-20-1981   Ch. 38, App. D
1633      1-4-1982    72.06
1661      9-20-1982   Ch. 38, App. E
1676      2-7-1983    90.28
                      35.032;
1684      3-21-1983   Ch. 38, App. J;
                      72.36
                      Ch. 38, App. A;
                      54.046,
                      54.047,
1679      4-4-1983    54.049 -
                      54.052,
                      54.054,
                      54.055
                      30.040,
                      30.041,
1680      4-4-1983    30.045,
                      30.048,
                      31.23
1687      5-2-1983    72.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
1703      9-6-1983    Ch. 38, App. E
1704      9-6-1983    Ch. 38, App. D
1701      9-19-1983   95.03
                      31.15,
1707      10-3-1983   31.18,
                      31.22
1709      10-3-1983   30.077
1710      10-3-1983   50.99
1712      10-3-1983   94.37
1713      10-3-1983   94.38
1730      5-7-1984    72.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
1748      10-1-1984   31.02
1750      10-1-1984   30.022
1752      10-1-1984   33.02
1754      10-1-1984   30.077
1756      10-1-1984   51.110
1758      10-1-1984   72.16
1759      10-1-1984   72.50
1760      10-1-1984   94.39
                      54.065,
1763      10-1-1984   54.066,
                      54.999
1765      12-4-1984   Ch. 38, App. A;
                      54.046
1768      2-4-1985    Ch. 38, App. H;
                      90.40
                      90.03,
1769      2-4-1985    90.06,
                      90.07
1774      6-3-1985    91.08
1778      9-3-1985    Ch. 38, App. B
1781      9-16-1985   150.382
                      37.01 -
                      37.06,
1800      4-7-1986    37.20 -
                      37.27,
                      37.40 -
                      37.48
1789      4-21-1986   31.22
1794      4-21-1986   31.23
1796      4-21-1986   Ch. 38, App. F
1797      4-21-1986   30.002
1805      5-10-1986   91.01
1816      1-5-1987    32.05
1817      2-2-1987    30.077
1818      2-16-1987   36.05;
                      Ch. 38, App. J
1820      3-2-1987    30.042
1825      7-20-1987   Ch. 38, App. E
1831      11-2-1987   72.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
1835      4-18-1988   35.033
1871      1-15-1989   72.35
1863      3-6-1989    130.30
1876      9-5-1989    95.35,
                      95.99
1877      9-5-1989    71.02
1882      11-20-1989  72.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II
1888      1-2-1990    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1891      1-29-1990   52.03
1897      4-2-1990    91.56
1895      4-16-1990   33.22
1906      4-16-1990   72.16
1918      7-16-1990   Ch. 38, App. J
1932      8-20-1990   Ch. 38, App. F
1933      9-4-1990    Ch. 38, App. B
91-1989   4-1-1991    54.030
91-2010   10-21-1991  95.35,
                      95.99
91-2012   10-21-1991  35.002
91-2018   12-2-1991   54.046
91-2018   12-2-1991   54.050
91-2019   12-2-1991   54.030
91-2020   12-2-1991   56.01,
                      56.02
92-2071   7-6-1992    117.01
92-2085   7-6-1992    72.03
92-2100   7-20-1992   Ch. 38, App. F
92-2112   9-8-1992    Ch. 38, App. D
93-2174   8-2-1993    Ch. 38, App. F
                      118.01 -
                      118.04,
                      118.15,
                      118.16,
93-2173   8-30-1993   118.30 -
                      118.39,
                      118.50 -
                      118.52,
                      118.54 -
                      118.56
94-2238   7-27-1994   Ch. 38, App. F
95-2311   4-3-1995    72.51
95-2329   8-7-1995    Ch. 38, App. F
95-2334   10-2-1995   95.35,
                      95.99
95-2335   10-2-1995   Ch. 38, App. M
95-2336   10-2-1995   Ch. 38, App. J
95-2340   11-6-1995   72.04
96-2349   6-17-1996   30.044
                      53.01,
                      54.049,
                      54.051,
                      91.03,
96-2350   6-17-1996   91.04,
                      91.08 -
                      91.10,
                      91.19,
                      91.21,
                      91.55
                      52.12,
                      91.11,
96-2351   6-17-1996   91.12,
                      91.14 -
                      91.17,
                      91.22
96-2370   9-16-1996   Ch. 38, App. F
96-2371   9-16-1996   Ch. 38, App. E
96-2375   11-4-1996   31.55
97-2376   3-17-1997   51.055,
                      51.057
                      150.304,
97-2382   7-7-1997    150.306,
                      150.308
97-2386   10-20-1997  Ch. 38, App. F
98-2476   1-18-1999   72.16
98-2477   1-18-1999   72.17
98-2478   1-18-1999   72.15
98-2479   1-18-1999   72.18
98-2480   1-18-1999   72.19
98-2481   1-18-1999   72.20
98-2482   1-18-1999   72.21
98-2483   1-18-1999   72.22
98-2484   1-18-1999   72.23
98-2485   1-18-1999   72.24
99-2504   3-1-1999    31.60
99-2505   3-1-1999    31.56
99-2503   3-11-1999   31.59
99-2514   4-15-1999   35.001
99-2519   4-19-1999   33.02
99-2531   9-7-1999    Ch. 38, App. D
2000-2544 2-21-2000   Ch. 38, App. M
2000-2545 3-20-2000   35.075 -
                      35.082
2001-2582 10-1-2001   Ch. 38, App. F
2001-2583 11-19-2001  30.044
                      52.12,
                      91.11,
2001-2584 11-19-2001  91.12,
                      91.14 -
                      91.17,
                      91.22
                      53.01,
                      54.049,
                      54.051,
                      91.03,
2001-2585 11-19-2001  91.04,
                      91.08 -
                      91.10,
                      91.19,
                      91.21,
                      91.55
2001-2589 12-3-2001   54.080
2001-2590 12-3-2001   54.081
2001-2591 12-3-2001   54.084
2001-2593 12-3-2001   54.088
2001-2594 1-21-2002   52.03
2001-2596 1-21-2002   52.46
2001-2597 1-21-2002   52.47
2001-2598 1-21-2002   52.47
2001-2599 1-21-2002   50.02
2001-2601 1-21-2002   51.072
2001-2602 1-21-2002   Ch. 38, App. E
2002-2611 2-4-2002    30.045
2002-2620 5-20-2002   51.072
2002-2628 7-1-2002    51.036
2002-2629 7-1-2002    54.088
2002-2630 7-1-2002    Ch. 38, App. B
2002-2627 8-5-2002    51.004
2002-2636 11-4-2002   91.35 -
                      91.42
2003-2650 1-20-2003   150.999
                      96.01 -
2003-2660 6-16-2003   96.08,
                      96.20 -
                      96.27
2003-2678 9-2-2003    Ch. 38, App. D
2004-2688 3-15-2004   Ch. 38, App. M
                      52.60 -
2004-2689 3-15-2004   52.62,
                      52.66,
                      52.99
2004-2703 8-16-2004   Ch. 38, App. M
2004-2704 8-16-2004   92.01 -
                      92.08
                      30.045,
                      30.049,
2004-2707 9-20-2004   51.005,
                      52.01,
                      52.26
2004-2710 10-4-2004   95.35,
                      95.99
2004-2716 11-1-2004   52.63 -
                      52.65
2004-2713 12-6-2004   Ch. 38, App. F
2004-2715 12-6-2004   Ch. 38, App. E
                      30.050,
2004-2717 1-3-2005    54.025 -
                      54.030
                      30.001,
2005-2720 2-7-2005    30.003,
                      30.004
2005-2721 2-7-2005    31.42
2005-2722 2-7-2005    31.40
                      31.15 -
2005-2723 2-7-2005    31.20,
                      31.22 -
                      31.24
2005-2738 7-7-2005    37.60,
                      37.61
                      150.010,
                      150.020,
2005-2733 7-18-2005   150.030,
                      150.080,
                      150.090
2005-2734 7-18-2005   150.040,
                      150.045
2005-2735 8-1-2005    150.050,
                      150.055
2005-2736 7-18-2005   150.070
                      35.034,
2005-2739 7-18-2005   150.200,
                      150.202,
                      150.210
2005-2746 9-6-2005    54.135 -
                      54.137
2006-2764 2-20-2006   35.015
2006-2762 3-24-2006   72.21
2006-2770 4-17-2006   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      31.16,
2006-2773 7-3-2006    31.17,
                      31.22
2006-2771 7-17-2006   54.115
2006-2772 7-17-2006   130.15 -
                      130.17
2006-2782 11-6-2006   50.01
2006-2784 12-4-2006   111.01
2006-2785 12-18-2006  Ch. 38, App. J
2006-2786 12-18-2006  52.45
                      34.01 -
                      34.03,
                      34.15,
2007-2787 3-5-2007    34.16,
                      34.30 -
                      34.35,
                      34.50 -
                      34.52
2007-2789 3-5-2007    33.54
2007-2794 6-4-2007    35.031
2007-2795 9-6-2007    35.076
2007-2799 9-17-2007   Ch. 38, App. E
2007-2801 11-5-2007   91.35 -
                      91.43
2007-2804 12-3-2007   117.02
                      51.005,
                      52.01,
2002-2613 9-2-2008    52.12,
                      52.26,
                      52.27
2008-2812 9-2-2008    Ch. 38, App. F
2008-2813 9-2-2008    Ch. 38, App. D
2008-2814 11-3-2008   34.40
2009-2822 3-16-2009   150.300
2009-2823 4-6-2009    150.304
2009-2825 8-3-2009    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                      90.20 -
                      90.23,
2009-2826 8-17-2009   90.25 -
                      90.33,   
                      90.99
2009-2829 9-8-2009    Ch. 38, App. F
2009-2831 9-21-2009   150.040
2009-2830 10-5-2009   90.40 -
                      90.45
2009-2833 11-2-2009   91.43
2010-2836 5-3-2010    54.045 -
                      54.055
2010-2837 5-3-2010    Ch. 38, App. A
2010-2840 9-20-2010   Ch. 38, App. D
2010-2846 12-6-2010   91.35 -
                      91.43
2011-2855 5-16-2011   Adopting Ordinance
                      72.36,
2011-2858 6-6-2011    72.37; repealed
                      32.08
2011-2863 9-6-2011    Ch. 38, App. E
2011-2864 9-6-2011    Ch. 38, App. D
                      96.01 -
                      96.08,
2012-2872 6-4-2012    96.20 -
                      96.28,
                      96.99
                      34.01 -
                      34.03,
                      34.15,
                      34.16,
2012-2873 5-7-2012    34.30 -
                      34.35,
                      34.50 -
                      34.52,
                      34.99
2012-2875 6-18-2012   31.60
2012-2882 9-17-2012   Ch. 38, App. E
2012-2884 9-17-2012   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2012-2885 10-1-2012   35.035
2012-2886 11-19-2012  91.41
2012-2887 12-3-2012   114.01
2015-2916 5-18-2015   31.23
2015-2917 7-20-2015   35.032
2016-2924 5-2-2016    94.02
2016-2927 5-2-2016    54.065
                      150.010,
                      150.020,
                      150.030,
                      150.040,
                      150.045,
                      150.050,
                      150.055,
                      150.056,
                      150.060,
                      150.070,
                      150.080,
                      150.090,
                      150.200,
                      150.202,
                      150.204,
                      150.206,
                      150.208,
                      150.210,
                      150.212,
                      150.220,
                      150.300,
2016-2928 5-16-2016   150.302,
                      150.304,
                      150.306,
                      150.308,
                      150.330,
                      150.332,
                      150.334,
                      150.350,
                      150.352,
                      150.354,
                      150.356,  
                      150.380,
                      150.382,
                      150.400,
                      150.402,
                      150.404,
                      150.406,
                      150.408,
                      150.410,
                      150.412,
                      150.414,
                      150.999
2016-2930 5-16-2016   91.23
2016-2931 5-16-2016   151.01
2016-2932 5-16-2016   152.01
2016-2935 8-1-2016    Ch. 38, App. J
2016-2936 8-15-2016   Ch. 38, App. M
2016-2939 9-19-2016   Ch. 38, App. F
2016-2941 10-17-2016  Ch. 38, App. D
2016-2942 10-17-2016  51.072
2017-2947 3-20-2017   Ch. 38, App. J
2017-2948 5-1-2017    91.24
2017-2949 6-5-2017    35.030
2017-2950 9-5-2017    111.01
2017-2954 9-18-2017   Ch. 38, App. F
2017-2956 9-5-2017    90.23
2017-2958 9-18-2017   Ch. 38, App. D
                      119.01 -
2018-2962 4-2-2018    119.10,
                      119.99
2018-2963 7-2-2018    130.16
2018-2965 5-7-2018    95.03
2018-2976 12-17-2018  130.02
2019-2983 7-1-2019    31.23
2019-2988 9-16-2019   Ch. 38, App. F
2019-2990 11-4-2019   34.30
2019-2992 11-4-2019   90.08,
                      90.24
2019-2993 12-2-2019   Ch. 38, App. E
2019-2994 12-2-2019   Ch. 38, App. D
                      150.010 -
                      150.090,
                      150.200 -
                      150.220,
                      150.300 -
                      150.308,
                      150.330 -
                      150.334,
2020-2996 2-17-2020   150.350 -
                      150.356,
                      150.380,
                      150.382,
                      150.400,
                      150.402,
                      150.406 -
                      150.414,
                      150.999
                      90.08,
                      90.20,
                      90.22,
2020-2999 3-16-2020   90.23,
                      90.30,
                      90.33 -
                      90.37,
                      90.99; repealing 90.24
2020-3001 3-16-2020   Ch. 38, App. H
2020-3002 4-6-2020    95.03,
                      95.35; repealing 95.05
2020-3003 4-6-2020    130.32
2020-3004 4-6-2020    33.03
2020-3005 5-4-2020    31.56
2020-3006 5-4-2020    30.002,
                      30.040
2020-3007 4-6-2020    130.34,
                      130.99
2020-3009 6-15-2020   90.33
2020-3013 9-21-2020   120.01 -
                      120.11
2021-3014 4-19-2021   Ch. 38, App. E
2021-3015 4-19-2021   Ch. 38, App. D
2021-3017 6-21-2021   90.33,
                      90.99
2021-3018 9-7-2021    71.30
2021-3022 9-20-2021   Ch. 38, App. F
2021-3025 10-4-2021   30.037
2021-3028 10-18-2021  33.03
2021-3029 10-18-2021  50.02
2021-3030 10-18-2021  repealing 111.02
2021-3031 10-18-2021  31.16
2021-3032 12-6-2021   150.402
2021-3033 11-1-2021   130.99; repealing 130.33
2022-3034 2-21-2022   34.40; repealing 31.05
2022-3035 3-7-2022    Ch. 38, App. M
2022-3036 4-18-2022   Ch. 38, App. E
2022-3037 4-18-2022   Ch. 38, App. D
2022-3048 10-17-2022  Ch. 38, App. F
                      35.095,
                      35.100 -
2022-3057 11-21-2022  35.104,
                      95.03,
                      95.04,
                      95.19
2023-3059 2-20-2023   34.40
2023-3062 3-6-2023    150.400 -
                      150.414
2023-3063 3-6-2023    Ch. 38, App. M
2023-3064 4-3-2023    Ch. 38, App. E
2023-3065 4-3-2023    Ch. 38, App. D
2023-3072 9-18-2023   Ch. 38, App. F
2023-3074 22-202-2023 Ch. 38, App. B
2023-3075 11-6-2023   54.052
2024-3076 4-15-2024   Ch. 38, App. E
2024-3077 4-15-2024   Ch. 38, App. D
2024-3081 7-15-2024   95.35
                      75.01 -
2024-3080 8-19-2024   75.09,
                      75.99
2024-3087 10-7-2024   Ch. 38, App. F
2024-3088 10-7-2024   Ch. 38, App. E
2024-3089 10-7-2024   Ch. 38, App. D
                      90.33,
2024-3094 12-16-2024  90.36,
                      90.45
                      Ch. 38, App. C,
2024-3092 1-20-2025   50.01,
                      52.78 -
                      52.87; repealing 52.28
                      95.01 -
2025-3101 4-7-2025    95.04,
                      95.19; repealing 93.01 - 93.03
                     
 
