MUNICIPAL CODE OF
THE CITY OF
MILFORD, NEBRASKA
Contains 2024 S-19 Supplement,
Current through Ord. No. 983, passed 12/3/24
State Legislation through 2009
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
of
MILFORD, NEBRASKA
Jeanne Hoggins Clerk
Gary TeSelle   Utility Superintendent
Anthony Aerts  Attorney
Darrin Kremer  Chief of Police
Jeremy Dinges  Fire Chief
               
CITY COUNCIL
Patrick L. Kelley, Mayor
Becky Freeman, President
Dainton Parks, Acting President
Dustin Bauer
Tony DeLong
 
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE
ORDINANCE NO. 361
   An ordinance of the City of Milford, Nebraska, codifying the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF MILFORD, NEBRASKA.
   Section 1. Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of
Milford, Nebraska, are hereby codified into ten chapters and the articles and
sections thereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of this
Municipality.
   Section 2. Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed;
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
   1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
   2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
   4.   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise, or license to
persons, firms, or corporations.
   5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
   7.   Real Estate Transactions.
   8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
   Section 3. Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. 361 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof. Such ordinances above
repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the passage, approval
and publication of this general codification ordinance for the purpose of all
rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and actions therefor.
   Section 4. Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters,
articles, and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to
be the chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance.
All ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with No. 362.
   Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
   Section 6. Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
($100.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and
punished as though he were the principal offender.
   Section 7. General Definitions:
   1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include
natural persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations of whatever character.
   2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender
may apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing
the plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All
words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural
number.
   3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter. Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. 361. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
   4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product
at wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell
the said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to
consumers.
   5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality
whenever used in this code mean the City of Milford, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
   6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
   7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   8.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   Section 8. Time.  Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
   Section 9. Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience under
the General Codification Ordinance No. 361, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
   Section 10. Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as they may
see fit. (Ref 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
   Section 11. When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
   Passed and approved February 19, 1974.
                                             Ralph Kapke
                                             Mayor
   Ruth J. Curtis
   Municipal Clerk
(SEAL)
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
      Article
         
1.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
         
2.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
         
3.   BONDS
         
4.   CORPORATE SEAL
         
5.   MEETINGS
         
6.   ORDINANCES
         
7.   ELECTIONS
         
8.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
         
9.   COMPENSATION
         
10.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
         
11.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-101 CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the Municipality shall have the general, and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
Municipality. He shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and may
vote when his vote shall be decisive on any pending matter, legislation, or
transaction and the Mayor shall, for the purpose and the Council is equally
divided on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction and the Mayor shall,
for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His
signature must appear on the Municipal Clerk's minutes of all meetings, and he
must sign all resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for the payment
of money when ordered by the City Council; Provided, any ordinance vetoed by
the Mayor may be passed over his veto by a two-thirds (2/3) vote by the members
of the City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any
ordinance, and returns it to the Council with his objections in writing at the
next regular Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his
signature. He shall from time to time communicate to the Council such
information and recommendations as, in his opinion, may improve the
Municipality. He may require at reasonable intervals any Municipal official to
exhibit his accounts and make reports to the Council on any subject pertaining
to his office. He shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense
arising under the ordinances of the Municipality. He shall have the authority
to call on every male inhabitant of the Municipality over eighteen (18) years
of age and under the age of fifty (50) years to aid in enforcing the laws. He
may remove at any time an appointed police officer of the Municipality. His
territorial authority shall extend over all places within five (5) miles of the
corporate limits of the Municipality for the enforcement of any health
ordinance, and one half (½) mile in all matters vested in him except taxation.
He shall also have such other duties as the City Council may by resolution
confer upon him, or in any other matters which the laws of the State of
Nebraska repose in him. He shall be elected at the Municipal Election, and
shall serve a four (4) year term of office. Any candidate for Mayor must have
resided within the Municipality for forty (40) days prior to filing for the
said office and must in addition be a qualified taxpayer. (Ref. 17-110 through
17-117 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 385, 12/16/75)
§ 1-102 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§ 1-103 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four (4)
year term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the Municipal
Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-104 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Councilmembers of this Municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmen-elect
who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the Municipality shall be represented by at least two (2) Councilmen. No person
shall be eligible who is not at the time of his election an actual resident of
the ward for which he is qualified and should any City Councilman move from the
ward from which he was elected, his office shall thereby become vacant. (Ref.
17-104, 17-107.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 386, 12/16/75)
§ 1-105 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the Municipality, except
Mayor, notice of said vacancy shall be presented in writing to the City Council
at a regular meeting and said notice shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting.
   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by causing
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the Municipality
or by posting in three (3) public places in the Municipality the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   The Mayor shall within two (2) weeks after the regular meeting at which such
notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a special
meeting of the City Council at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a
qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term.
   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Governing Body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council the vacancy shall be
filled. If a majority vote is not reached the nomination shall be rejected and
the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations
until the vacancy is filled.
   The Mayor shall cast his vote only in case of a tie vote of the City
Council.
   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each nominee.
   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City office as
provided above in this section, call a special Municipal Election to fill such
vacancy.
   If there is a vacancy in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, there shall be a special Municipal Election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies. (Ref. 32-4,152, 32-1406 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 387, 12/16/75; 513, 10/2/84)
§ 1-106 ELECTED OFFICIALS; MAYOR; VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the office
of Mayor until such vacancy is filled or such disability is removed, or in case
of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from assuming
office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the term, but
such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the Council
shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office of
Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the
Council which shall be filled as provided in section
1-105. (Ref. 17-107, 17-115 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 387, 12/16/75)
§ 1-107 HIRING OF RELATIVES AND/OR FAMILY MEMBERS.
   (A)   Nepotism. This policy applies to all City elected and appointed
officers and employees, except as otherwise provided herein, and is to
establish a nepotism policy regarding the hiring and supervision of relatives
and/or family members who are employed by the Municipality.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS. Include the following:
         (a)   By blood: Parent, child, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
sister, nieces, nephews, uncles, aunts, great grandchildren, great
grandparents;
         (b)   By marriage: Husband, wife, stepparent, stepchild, father-in-
law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law,
half-sister, half-brother;
         (c)   By law: Guardianship relationships and adoptive parent/child
relationships;
         (d)   Domestic partner: Individuals living together in a meretricious
relationship.g
      SUPERVISOR. An employee with any of the following responsibilities:
         (a)   Responsible for, or effectively contributes to, employee's
performance appraisal;
         (b)   Issues low level discipline (oral and documented oral
counseling) or recommends higher level discipline;
         (c)   Responds to initial level of grievance;
         (d)   Accountable for employee's time (e.g., schedule and/or time-
sheet approval)
   (C)   Employment policy. Subject to the restrictions and provisions of
Sections 49-1499 et. seq. RS Neb. and all other statutory provisions of the
State of Nebraska pertaining to nepotism and conflicts of interest:
      (1)   It is the policy of the Municipality that members of an immediate
family, as defined above, shall not be employed by the Municipality in a
supervisory-subordinate relationship, except in exceptional circumstances in
which there is no reasonable alternative, and/ or when the Governing Body has
declared it to be in the public interest that such employment be approved, but
only with the approval of a majority of the Governing Body.
      (2)   Unless specifically authorized by a majority of the Governing Body,
no municipal employee shall directly or indirectly supervise an immediate
family member, nor shall immediate family members be employed in the
supervisory-subordinate relationship.
      (3)   No elected or appointed public official or any municipal employee
shall intervene in any employment matter involving an immediate family member
and shall refrain from involvement in any employment matter which may be viewed
as a conflict of interest. (Ord. No. 841,5/4/11)
ARTICLE 2: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-201 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor, by, and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by, and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number of regular policemen,
and other officials as may be necessary, and may establish a police reserve
force as provided by law. All police officers may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in section 3-402 of this Code
(Ref. 81-1438 through 81-1446 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 415, 3/1/77)
§ 1-201.01 HIRING OF RELATIVES AND/OR FAMILY MEMBERS.
   For provisions on the nepotism policy regarding the hiring and supervision
of relatives and/or family members who are employed by the Municipality, see §
1-107.
§ 1-202 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Governing Body of the Municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine, and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment, except
the Mayor or a City Councilman with any other elective, or appointive office so
that one or more of such offices may be held by the officer or employee at the
same time; Provided, the offices so merged, and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only; and provided further, the
salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of the
maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined. (Ref.
17-108.02 RS Neb.)
§ 1-202.01 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED; MERGER OF
APPOINTED OFFICES OF MUNICIPAL CLERK AND MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   The offices of Municipal Clerk and the duties thereof prescribed in section
1-203 of this Code and of Municipal Treasurer and the duties thereof as
prescribed in section 1-204 of this Code are hereby combined so that such
office may be held by the same person to be known as the CLERK-TREASURER in
accordance with the authority granted to the Governing Body by section 1-202 of
this Code. The combination or merger of said offices shall be limited to the
consolidation of the official duties only, and the offices so merged and the
duties thereof shall otherwise be construed to be separate. The salary of the
officer holding the combined office shall not be in excess of the maximum
amount provided by law. All references to Municipal Clerk or Municipal
Treasurer shall hereafter apply to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. (Ord. No.
746, 11/4/03)
§ 1-203 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the Governing Body, and
keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall keep a
record of all outstanding bonds against the Municipality and when any bonds are
sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, said record shall show the fact. He or she
shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the
Municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That record
shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the
terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or she
shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed,
and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which
shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted
by the Governing Body.
   The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the Municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money
except where some other Municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
Municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the Municipality kept, and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the Municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
Governing Body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions, and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date, and hour of
filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate, and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official, or
other person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions, and
communications which are directed at said officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the Municipality, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Governing Body. Within thirty (30) days after any
meeting of the Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and publish
the official proceedings of the Governing Body in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality, and which was duly designated as such by the
Governing Body. Said publication shall set forth a statement of the proceedings
thereof and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of
the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of
all payroll claims may be included as one (1) item. Between July 15 and August
15 of each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or
hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job
title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions
of the position. The charge for such publication shall not exceed the rates
provided by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said publication shall be
charged against the General Fund. He or she shall then keep in a book with a
proper index, copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the
Municipal Clerk by order of the Governing Body, or under the ordinances of the
Municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer's affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk's certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the Municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five (5) days after
such disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on
appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Governing Body. He or
she shall destroy Municipal records under the direction of the State Records
Board pursuant to sections 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the Governing
Body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the Municipal
Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other records
classified as permanent by the State Records Board. (Ref. 17-605, 19-1102, 19-
1104, 84-1201 through 84-1220, 84-712 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 388, 12/16/
75; 611, 5/4/93)
§ 1-204 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the City. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the City Treasurer fails to render his
or her account within twenty (20) days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Governing Body, the Mayor may use this failure as
cause to remove the Treasurer from office. (Ref. 17-606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor. (Ref. 77-2201 RS Neb.)
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by section 77-2202 RS Neb.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office. (Ref. 77-2209 RS Neb.)
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess. (Ref. 77-2210 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within
sixty (60) days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of
the receipts and expenditures by funds of the City for the preceding fiscal
year. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is published in the City, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the City is located. (Ref. 19-1103 RS
Neb.)
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and collect all
money owned by or owed to the City as directed by the City Council. He or she
shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money is, in the name of
the City, in a solvent and going financial institution of a type authorized by
state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the City, whenever paid
by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City
Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 1-205 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
   (Repealed 2005)
§ 1-206 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
   (Repealed 2005)
§ 1-207 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the Municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the Municipality.
When requested by the Governing Body, he shall attend meetings of the Governing
Body, and shall advise any Municipal Official in all matters of law in which
the interests of the Municipality may be involved. He shall draft such
ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be required in the
administration of the affairs of the Municipality. He shall examine all bonds,
contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be required to act,
and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such instruments, and
documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and proper form. He
shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute violations of the Municipal
ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing Body. Without direction, he
shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the Municipal ordinances
that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher court. He shall also
examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records,
and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the
end that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
insure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage, and approval are concerned. The Governing Body shall have the right to
compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.)
§ 1-208 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act
as Health Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the
Municipality appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in
cases arising out of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall make all
necessary reports required by the Municipal ordinances, or the laws of the
State of Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 1-209 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICEMAN.
   The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
Municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in the Municipal
jail, or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held
before the proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the Municipality. They
shall have full power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary
to assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to
render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction
by a fine. Every Municipal Policeman shall be expected to be conversant, and
knowledgeable with the Municipal and State laws and no law enforcement official
shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal
Policemen shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the Municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Any Municipal Policeman who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an
arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an
arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the Governing Body to retain any
Municipal Policeman in that position after he shall have been duly convicted of
the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the State of
Nebraska, or any ordinance of the Municipality, except minor traffic
violations. It shall be the duty of every Municipal Policeman making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal
effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their
release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the Municipal
Police by the Municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall
be required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member
shall leave the force, he shall immediately deliver his badge to the Police
Chief. The Governing Body may from time to time provide the Municipal Police
with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties. (Ref. 17-118, 17-124 RS Neb.)
§ 1-210 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of
fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances; the
installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two (2) days investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his jurisdiction. He
shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April and October of each year,
cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
The Governing Body shall purchase Workmen's Compensation Insurance, and a group
term life insurance policy for each active volunteer fireman. Said life
insurance policy will provide a minimum of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars
for death from any cause to age sixty-five (65) and shall at the option of the
individual fireman, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age
sixty-five (65). He shall have the power during the time of a fire, and for a
period of thirty-six (36) hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or
any person for hindering the department's efforts, conducting himself in a
noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by
the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his assistant in
charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any person present
at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection of
property. Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers. (Ref. 17-147, 17-505,
35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 1-211 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a special engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The special engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his surveys and all
other work done for the Municipality. He shall, when directed by the Governing
Body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be
necessary in the judgment of the Governing Body. He shall, upon request of the
Governing Body, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be
done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all surveys,
estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges,
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Governing Body may require. All records of the special engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the Municipality, and shall be turned over to his
successor. (Ref. 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 496, 10/4/83)
§ 1-212 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Street Superintendent shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the Governing Body, have general charge, direction, and control
of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
Municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the Governing Body may
require. It shall be his responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein
function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair. He shall, at the
request of the Governing Body make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the
Municipality, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions, and additional employees as he may believe are needed to
maintain a satisfactory street system in the Municipality along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He shall issue such permits, and assume such
other duties as the Governing Body may direct. The Municipal Street
Superintendent may be removed at any time by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-107, 17-119 RS Neb.)
§ 1-213 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one Municipal utility, and the Governing Body determines that it is
in the best interest of the Municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said Municipal utilities. The Utilities
Superintendent may be removed for good cause by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Governing Body and any vacancy occurring in the said office by death,
resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for
the appointment of all Municipal officials. (Ref. 17-541 RS Neb.)
§ 1-214 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the Municipality to determine whether all buildings and
structures are in compliance with the Municipal ordinances. He shall
investigate all complaints whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of
a petition alleging, and charging that a violation of the Municipal ordinances
exists, and that a building, or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human
habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying
himself to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of eight
(8:00) o'clock A.M., and five (5:00) o'clock P.M., or at any time if an
emergency exists, or if requested by the owner, or occupant thereof. He shall
keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and
complaints issued. The records shall be available for public inspection, and he
shall prepare an annual report including statistics based on the records kept.
The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of
labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or
maintenance of a building, except where he is the owner of a building, and he
shall not act as an agent for any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale,
lease, or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the
Governing Body as often as they may deem necessary, and shall have such other
duties, and issue such permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may
be removed at any time for good, and sufficient cause by the Governing Body.
§ 1-215 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in good
faith, and without malice in the scope of his official duties, he shall not
himself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons, or
property as the result of any act required by him, or by reason of any act or
omission in the discharge of his duties. He shall, in the discharge of his
official duties, and upon proper identification, have authority to enter into
any building, structure, or premise at any reasonable hour. He shall perform
such other duties, and issue any permits that the Governing Body may direct.
The Electrical Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient
cause by the Governing Body.
§ 1-216 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith,
and without malice in the scope of his official duties, he shall not himself be
held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons, or property
as the result of any act required by him or by reason of any act, or omission
in the discharge of his duties. He shall, in the discharge of his official
duties, and upon proper identification, have authority to enter into any
building, structure, or premise at any reasonable hour. He shall perform such
other duties and issue any permits that the Governing Body may direct. The
Plumbing Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by
the Governing Body.
§ 1-217 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the Building Inspector is hereby designated as Zoning
Inspector.
§ 1-218 TREE COMMISSIONER; CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Commissioner for the
City of Milford, Nebraska, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09)
§ 1-219 TREE COMMISSIONER; TERM, COMPENSATION, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The term of the Tree Commissioner to be appointed by the Mayor shall be one
(1) year. It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Commissioner to study,
investigate, counsel and develop a written plan for replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys. Such plan
will be presented to the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval,
shall constitute the official comprehensive City tree plan for the City of
Milford, Nebraska. The Tree Commissioner shall review annually and update, if
needed, the comprehensive City tree plan. The Tree Commissioner shall prepare
and present an annual work plan to the City Council for their acceptance and
approval. The Tree Commissioner, when requested by the City Council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, reports and recommendations upon any
special matter(s) of questions coming within the scope of its work. (The Mayor
may appoint an ad hoc citizen advisory committee to assist the Tree
Commissioner). (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09)
§ 1-220 TREE COMMISSIONER; DEFINITIONS.
   LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature attain heights greater than forty-
five (45) feet at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from
twenty-five (25) to forty-five (45) feet at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the City, or to which the public has free access.
   SMALL TREES. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights
greater than twenty-five (25) feet at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the City. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-221 TREE COMMISSIONER; TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The City Tree Commissioner shall establish and maintain a list of tree
species which shall constitute the official street tree species for the City.
Said list shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Governing Body, and a
copy of the listing of official street tree species for the City shall be
maintained on file with the City Clerk and said list shall be made available to
any person upon request. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-222 TREE COMMISSIONER; TREES; DISTANCE FROM UTILITY LINES.
   No street trees or park trees other than those species listed as small trees
in sections
1-218 through
1-233, or species specifically approved by the Municipal Tree Commissioner, may
be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire,
or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility, line, wire or main. No street tree
shall be planted within ten feet (10) of any fire hydrant. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/
09) 
§ 1-223 TREE COMMISSIONER; TREES; CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Municipality shall have the right, after notifying the property
owner(s) and allowing sufficient time for them to eliminate the problem(s), to
plant, prune, maintain or remove street trees or park trees within the lines of
all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds and after approval by the Tree Commissioner. The
Municipal Tree Commissioner may, after notifying the property owner(s) and
allowing sufficient time for them to eliminate the problem(s), cause or order
to be removed any street tree or park tree or part thereof which is in an
unsafe condition or which, by reasons of its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
   (B)   The utility companies may remove, at their expense, trees or parts
thereof which are injurious to their utility lines, after negotiating with the
property owner(s). No person or property owner shall remove any live street
tree or park tree for any reason without written permission of the Municipal
Tree Commissioner. Provided, however, when said utility companies confront an
emergency situation, they will have the authority to trim or remove the trees
or parts thereof at their own discretion and expense. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-224 TREE COMMISSIONER; TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or Municipal
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severely cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three (3) inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
sections
1-218 through
1-233 at the determination of the Municipal Tree Commissioner. (Ord. No. 830,
11/3/09) 
§ 1-225 TREE COMMISSIONER; OBSTRUCTION, PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   All trees and shrubs within the Municipality shall be pruned or removed when
such trees or shrubs obstruct the light from any street lamp, obstruct the
visibility of any traffic control device or sign, obstruct the passage of
pedestrians on sidewalks, or obstruct the view of any street or alley
intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be
fourteen (14) feet on all arterial and collector streets and eleven (11) feet
on all residential streets and seven (7) feet over sidewalks. All shrubs and
hedges defined as street trees in sections
1-218 through
1-233 shall be kept trimmed by the abutting property owner at least one (1)
foot back from all curbs, sidewalks, driveways or alleys; and the same shall at
all times be kept trimmed to a height not greater than thirty (30) inches above
the top of the curb unless the Municipal Tree Commissioner, for other than
corner lots, determines that a greater height would not constitute a hazard to
pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The Municipal Tree Commissioner shall notify,
in writing, the owners of such trees or shrubs on private property. Pruning
shall be done by said owners at their own expense within sixty (60) days after
the date of notification. In the event of failure of owners to comply with said
notice, the Municipality shall have the authority to prune said trees or shrubs
and assess the cost of said pruning to the property owner. If the owner fails
to reimburse the Municipality after being properly billed, the cost may be
assessed against the real estate and the Governing Body shall have the
assessment certified to the County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in
the manner as provided by law. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-226 TREE COMMISSIONER; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES, PRUNING, REMOVAL.
   All trees and shrubs within the Municipality shall be pruned or removed when
such trees or shrubs constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitutes a threat to other trees or shrubs within
the City. The Municipal Tree Commissioner shall have the power and authority to
prune or remove, or order to prune or remove, any such trees or shrubs on
private property. The Municipal Tree Commissioner shall notify, in writing, the
owners of such trees or shrubs. Pruning or removal shall be done by said owners
at their own expense within sixty (60) days after the date of notification. In
the event of failure of owners to comply with said notice, the Municipality
shall have the authority to prune or remove said trees or shrubs and assess the
cost of said pruning to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the
Municipality after being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the
real estate and the Governing Body shall have the assessment certified to the
County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in the manner as provided by
law. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-227 TREE COMMISSIONER; WORK ORDERED OR DONE BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Written permission shall not be required for any tree, shrub or hedge
planting, pruning, spraying or removing ordered or done by the City; however,
all such work shall be done in conformance with the requirements of sections 1-
218 through 1-233. The City of Milford Utility Department is responsible for
maintaining adequate clearance from trees and branches approaching overhead
primary, secondary and service electrical lines. The City Street Department is
similarly responsible for insuring that the City's streets, alleys and walkways
are clear of any trees, branches or shrubs which could obstruct the path or
sight distance of the motorist and/or pedestrian.
   (B)   The City is also cognizant of the fact that trees serve an important
aesthetic and energy saving purpose for the residents of the City. It is
therefore necessary to establish clear and specific rules regulating how the
trimming and/or removal of trees and shrubs is to be implemented when
necessary.
      (1)   Notices to residents. When it is determined that a tree or shrub
requires trimming or removal, the City shall deliver or mail by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner or tenant of the
abutting or affected property a notice advising him/her of the problem, the
approximate location, and the suggested remedy. In addition, the notice shall
advise the owner/tenant that he/she has ten (10) days in which to contact the
City if questions or objections concerning the action exist; and that if no
contact is made with City personnel during this time, the City will proceed
with the project as described in the notice. The notice, as described above,
shall apply to all cases, except when an emergency exists or when it is
necessary to remove a tree or branches in order to restore electrical service
or to open up a street blocked by a tree or branch.
      (2)   Removal of trees or shrubs. Trees shall be taken out only if the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   If the tree of concern is dead or affected by disease to the
extent that it could not survive on a long-term basis.
         (b)   If the tree or shrub of concern is located in such a position
that it cannot be trimmed properly to resolve the problem, without ruining its
aesthetic appearance.
      (3)   Trimming of trees or shrubs. If in the opinion of City personnel it
is necessary and feasible to trim a tree or shrub, trimming shall be completed
in the following manner:
         (a)   Tree branches affecting overhead power lines shall be trimmed
back from the power line a minimum of forty-eight (48) inches.
         (b)   Tree branches nearer to a street or sidewalk than the standards
set forth herein or adopted by said Tree Commissioner shall be trimmed back to
a point which meets these standards.
         (c)   Wherever feasible, branches shall not be stubbed in the middle
of a branch; rather the branch shall be trimmed at that point where it joins
with a greater sized branch of the trees.
      (4)   Removal of branches. Trees, branches and shrubs taken down by the
City shall be removed from the property as soon as is practical after they have
been felled. In no case shall the timber be left on the property longer than
five (5) working days after the trimming took place.
      (5)   Appeal of conflicts between City personnel and property owner or
tenant. If a property owner and/or tenant objects to the action proposed by
City personnel and efforts to mutually resolve the objection between the
parties involved fail, the City's Governing Body shall serve as a Hearing Board
to resolve the dispute. Appeal to the Governing Body shall be made in writing
to the City Clerk/Treasurer's office. When an appeal is filed, City personnel
shall take no further action to trim or remove the tree or shrub until the
Governing Body has acted on the appeal. The Governing Body shall hear all
appeals of this nature within thirty (30) days after it has been filed with the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (6)   Applicability of tree policy for trees located on private property
and on public property. The above policies shall be applicable to trees and
shrubs located on private property, as well as those located on public
property, rights-of-way and easements.
      (7)   Removal of stumps. If a tree must be removed, the City will be
responsible for removing the stump. Stumps are generally removed once a year,
usually in October or November of the year. All stumps from trees removed from
the City shall be removed within one (1) year of tree being removed. (Ord. No.
830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-228 TREE COMMISSIONER; ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Municipal Tree Commissioner, no person
shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any street tree or
park tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other
contrivance to such trees; allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance which
is harmful to such trees to come in contact with them; or set fire or permit
any fire to burn when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of
such trees. The preceding restrictions do not apply to proper planting, staking
and guying practices. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-229 TREE COMMISSIONER; PROTECTION OF TREES.
   All street trees or park trees near any excavation or construction of any
building, structure or street work, shall be guarded with a substantial fence,
frame or box not less than four (4) feet high and eight (8) feet square and all
construction materials, soil or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
This shall be the responsibility of the persons or firms doing the construction
work. No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches or lay any drive
within ten (10) feet of any street or park tree without first obtaining written
permission from the Municipal Tree Commissioner. No person shall deposit,
place, store or maintain upon any public property of the Municipality, any
stone, brick, sand, soil, concrete or other material which may impede the free
passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of any street tree or park
tree, except by written permission of the Municipal Tree Commissioner. (Ord.
No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-230 TREE COMMISSIONER; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-231 TREE COMMISSIONER; REVIEW BY THE GOVERNING BODY.
   The City Council of the Municipality shall have the right to review the
conduct, acts and decisions of the Municipal Tree Commissioner. Any person may
appeal any ruling or order of the Municipal Tree Commissioner to the Governing
Body who may hear the matter and make final decision. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-232 TREE COMMISSIONER; REMOVAL OF STREET OR PARK TREES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or property owner to remove any street
tree or park tree for any reason without written permission of the Municipal
Tree Commissioner. Upon conviction, the penalty for said offense shall not be
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
§ 1-233 TREE COMMISSIONER; ANNUAL ARBOR DAY EVENT.
   The Tree Commissioner, in conjunction with the Governing Body, shall plan
and implement at least one (1) Arbor Day event per calendar year, for the
purpose of promoting the planting of trees, or an award ceremony that honors
leading tree planters. (Ord. No. 830, 11/3/09) 
ARTICLE 3: BONDS
§ 1-301 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The City may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage. (Ref. 17-604 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the City shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the City in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required. (Ref. 11-104 RS Neb.)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed in the
City Clerk's office within the following time:
      (1)   Of all appointed officers, within thirty (30) days after their
appointment; and
      (2)   Of elected City officers, within thirty (30) days after the canvass
of the votes of the election at which they were chosen. (Ref. 11-105 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All official bonds of City officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two (2) sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two (2) or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a City
officer. (Ref. 11-109 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases. (Ref.
11-110 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved. (Ref. 11-111 RS Neb.)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds. (Ref. 11-112 RS Neb.)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval. (Ref. 11-113 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No City official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required. (Ref. 11-114 RS Neb.)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
(10) days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or
before the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the
bond within the required time and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office. (Ref. 11-115 RS
Neb.)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided. (Ref. 11-116 RS Neb.)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten (10) days from the time at
which his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified. (Ref. 11-117 RS
Neb.)
   (M) No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two (2)
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies. (Ref. 11-118 RS Neb.)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
City, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office. (Ord. No. 799, 3/4/08)
ARTICLE 4: CORPORATE SEAL
§ 1-401 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "City of
Milford, Seal, Nebraska." The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all
other official papers issued by order of the Governing Body and countersigned
by the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5: MEETINGS
§ 1-501 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75) (Amended by Ord.
No. 497, 10/4/83)
§ 1-502 MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
   (A)   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
   (B)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law, and
   (C)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a quorum
of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such subcommittees
are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on behalf of their
parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 497, 10/4/83; 615, 5/4/93)
§ 1-503 MEETINGS; PUBLIC.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a Municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the Governing Body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the Governing Body and to the public by a method designated by
the Governing Body or by the Mayor if the Governing Body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk
during normal business hours. No later than 5:15 p.m. on the Friday preceding
the meeting, the Municipal Clerk, or agent of the Municipal Clerk, shall cause
to be posted a copy of the agenda at the following locations within the
Municipality: (1) City Hall, (2) U.S. Post Office, (3) Sr. Center and (4)
digitally. Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled commencement of
the meeting or forty-eight (48) hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Governing Body scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
Municipality. The Governing Body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meetings. The
Governing Body may, by resolution, remove or add locations within the
Municipality for the posting of the agenda.
   (B)   The minutes of the Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the
manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, and the names of
each member of the Governing Body present or absent at each convened meeting.
The minutes of the Governing Body shall be a public record open to inspection
by the public upon request at any reasonable time at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the Governing Body in open
session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or
that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Ref. 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 389,
12/16/75; 497, 10/4/83; 548, 10/6/87; 937, 2/5/19)
§ 1-503.01 MEETINGS; AGENDA.
   Any member of the public requesting to place an item on the agenda for a
meeting of the Mayor and Council shall fill out a written request to be placed
upon such agenda on such form as shall be provided by the City Clerk. The
request shall be filed with the City Clerk during regular office hours of the
City Clerk. For regular meeting, all public agenda requests shall be filed not
later than 12:00 noon on the Friday preceding the meeting. The closing time for
public requests to add items to the Council agenda for special meetings shall
be not less than seventy-two (72) hours prior to the scheduled meeting. No item
shall be placed upon the agenda of any regular or special meeting later than
the times specified herein except upon the approval of the Mayor, or in his
absence, the President of the Governing Body. Except for items of an emergency
nature, the agenda may not be modified within twenty-four (24) hours of a
scheduled meeting of the Governing Body within the corporate limits of the
Municipality, or within forty-eight (48) hours of a scheduled meeting of the
Governing Body outside the corporate limits of the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall have the right to modify an agenda at the meeting for items of an
emergency nature which could not be placed upon the agenda within the time
constraints of the Open Meetings Law. (Ord. No. 674, 9/2/97) (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 739, 3/7/03; 872, 3/5/13)
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions may be held
for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
      (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion of the
appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (2)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then
the presiding officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on
the record the limitation on the subject matter of the closed session. The
public body holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration to
matters during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the
motion to close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be
reconvened in open session before any formal action may be taken. For purposes
of this section, formal action shall mean a collective decision or a collective
commitment or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal,
resolution, order, or ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall
not include negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal
counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under subdivision
(1)(a) of this section.
   (3)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
(a) the protection of the public interest or (b) the prevention of needless
injury to the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled
only by a majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and
its disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this Article. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this Article.
   (5)   The provisions of this Article shall not apply to chance meetings, or
to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public
body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened and
there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the
public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.  (Ref.
84-1410 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 497, 10/4/83;
612, 5/4/93; 634, 6/6/95)
§ 1-505 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of section
1-508 of this Article shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by no later than the end of the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-
1411 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75) (Amended by Ord. No. 497, 10/4/83)
§ 1-506 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   (1)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (2)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (3)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten (10)
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the City may have an additional ten (10) working days if the
employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness
or emergency.  (Ref. 84-1412, 84-1413 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75)
§ 1-507 MEETINGS; VOTES.
   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record shall
state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by secret
ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in
the minutes. (Ref. 17-616, 84-1413 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75)
§ 1-508 MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the Secretary, or
other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting, and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
389, 10/16/75)
§ 1-509 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   Subject to the provisions of this Article, the public shall have the right
to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or any
part of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called pursuant
to section
1-504 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment, or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to make and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of persons
attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing, broadcasting,
or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow citizens to
speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all
meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this Article hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be
too small to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be
deemed in violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional
meeting place which is located in this State. An agency which contracts with
Municipalities outside the State of Nebraska may hold meetings of any Committee
outside the State of Nebraska if such meetings are held only in such
contracting Municipalities. Final Action on any agenda item shall only be taken
by the agency at a meeting in the State of Nebraska, which meeting shall comply
with sections 84-1408 to 84-1414 RS Neb. The public body shall, upon request,
make a reasonable effort to accommodate the public's right to hear the
discussion and testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make
available at the meeting, for examination and copying by members of the public,
at least one (1) copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed at
an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available at least one (1) copy of
the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information. (Ref. 84-1412, 18-2438
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 389, 12/16/75) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 497, 10/4/83; 525, 10/
1/85; 547, 10/6/87)
§ 1-510 MEETINGS; GOVERNING BODY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 526, 10/1/85)
§ 1-511 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and such other Municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the Municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
§ 1-512 MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing
Body. When any person is called to order, he shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his
seat and address himself to the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine himself to the question. When two (2), or more persons rise at once,
the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions
shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the
Municipal Clerk, or any member of the Governing Body. Every member of the
Governing Body who is present when a question is voted upon, shall cast his
vote unless excused by a majority of the Governing Body present. No motion
shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by
the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is
entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the Governing Body making the
motion, or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the "Yeas" and
"Nays" shall be taken, and entered in the minutes upon the request of any
member of the Governing Body. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration
by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the member of the Governing Body
seconding the said resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration
of an ordinance, different times, or amounts are proposed, the question shall
be put on the largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall
be in order when made by a member voting with the majority, but such motion to
reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third (3rd) regular
meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When any question is
under debate, no motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the
previous question, a motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of the said motions
shall be decided without debate. Any of the rules of the Governing Body for
meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present. In
all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of
Order is the authority by which the Governing Body shall decide all procedural
disputes that may arise.
§ 1-513 MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same. (Ref. 17-107.02(9)
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 390, 12/16/75)
§ 1-514 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the City on the first (1st) regular meeting in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the City to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall
then nominate his candidates for appointive offices. He shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first (1st) regular meeting in
December following his election. All appointive officers shall qualify within
two (2) weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who
is not required to give bond shall consist in his subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the Municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of his office, said oath to be filed in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with the
oath endorsed thereon. (Amended by Ord. No. 386, 12/16/75)
§ 1-515 MEETINGS; REGULAR MEETING.
   The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in the meeting place of the
Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first (1st) Tuesday of each
month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   At all meetings of the Council a majority of the Councilmembers shall
constitute a quorum to do business. (Ref. 17-105 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 526, 10/1/
85) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 594, 6/2/92; 914, 7/5/17)
§ 1-516 MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of the City
Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The
call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall notify the Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating
the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Councilmember known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present.
A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and
compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor
and the President of the Council, the City Councilmembers shall elect a
President pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall
comply with procedures set forth in
Chapter 1, Article 6 herein. (Ref. 17-106 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 526, 10/1/85)
ARTICLE 6: ORDINANCES
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES; GRANT OF POWER.
   The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
by-laws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the Municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   (1)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilman may rise in his place
and in the presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the
Council read aloud the substance of his proposed ordinance and file a copy of
the same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration;
   (2)   Or with the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilman may present his
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
same and shall file the same for future consideration.
§ 1-603 ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one (1) time in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote
shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution
or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
   "Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Milford, Nebraska:"
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their adoption a concurrence of the majority of the members of the
Governing Body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
the title on three (3) different days unless three-fourths (3/4) of the
Governing Body vote to suspend this requirement, except that such requirement
shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In
case such requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and
then moved for final passage. Three-fourths (3/4) of the Council may require
any ordinance to be read in full before final passage under either process.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 635, 6/6/95)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one (1) time within
fifteen (15) days after they are passed in some newspaper published in the
Municipality, or if no paper is published in the Municipality, then by posting
a written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public places in the
Municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourths (¾) vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the Municipal
Clerk's minutes. (Ref 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-610 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 7: ELECTIONS
§ 1-701 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   The Municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter Thirty-two (32) Revised Statutes of Nebraska. Said
elections shall be held in conjunction with the State Primary and General
Election. Prior to February One (1) of the year in which the first (1st) such
joint election takes place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in
writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk
for Municipal election purposes.
   Commencing with the Statewide Primary Election in 1976, and every two (2)
years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the Statewide
Primary Election and elected at the Statewide General Election. (Ref. 17-107.02
(2), 32-505, 32-4,147 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 391, 12/16/75; 429, 11/15/
77)
§ 1-702 ELECTIONS; EXTENSION OF TERMS.
   The term of office of any member of the Governing Body that would expire
prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1976, is hereby
extended to December, 1976.
   The term of office of any member that would expire after December, 1976, but
prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1978, is hereby
extended to the first regular meeting in December, 1978. (Ref. 17-107.02(2)(3)
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 391, 12/16/75)
§ 1-703 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required. (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 391, 12/16/
75)
§ 1-704 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, WRITE-IN CANDIDATES.
   When the name of a candidate who did not file or become a petition candidate
for nomination is written in and voted for as a candidate for a Council member,
such person shall not be entitled to a certificate of nomination at the
statewide primary election nor have his name placed on the general election
ballot unless he shall have received not less than twenty (20%) percent of the
total votes cast for the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes in
the precinct or ward or the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes of
the at-large candidates, whichever the case may be, at the preceding election
in which candidates were elected to serve the ward, or of the at-large
candidates if the election was held at large. (Ref. 17-107.02(6) RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 391, 12/16/75)
§ 1-705 ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 391, 12/16/75)
§ 1-706 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-
in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election. (Ref. 17-
107.02(6)&(7) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 391, 12/16/75)
§ 1-707 ELECTIONS; ELECTION TO TERMS.
   The candidates shall be placed on the general election ballot and the
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected to terms of
the longest duration, and those receiving the next greatest number of votes
shall be elected to the remaining term or terms. The County Clerk shall place
the names of the candidates on the general election ballot in the direct order
according to the number of votes received at the primary election. If no
primary election was held, the names of the candidates shall be placed upon the
general election ballot in the order of their filing. The term of office of all
such members shall commence on the first regular meeting of the Council in
December following their election. (Ref. 17-107.02(8) RS Neb.) (Ord. Mp/ 391,
12/16/75) (Amended by Ord. No. 429, 11/15/77)
§ 1-708 ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to one (1%) percent of the
annual salary for the office for which the candidate will file; provided, there
shall be no filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per
diem is paid rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of
less than five hundred ($500.00) dollars per year. No nominating papers shall
be filed until the proper Municipal Treasurer's receipt, showing the payment of
the filing fee, shall be presented to the election officer with whom the
nomination papers are to be filed. (Ref. 32-513 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
420, 3/1/77)
§ 1-709 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY OR GENERAL, NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than forty (40) days prior to the Primary or
General Election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all
Municipal Elections which are held in conjunction with the County. (Ref. 32-
402.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 392, 12/16/75; 421, 3/1/77)
§ 1-710 ELECTIONS; JOINT, SPECIAL.
   In lieu of submitting a matter or issue at a separate special Municipal
Election, the Municipality may submit such matter or issue at a statewide
General or Primary Election or at a scheduled County Election or may request
the County to conduct a special election. Such matter or issue must be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
at least fifty (50) days prior to the election. The Municipal Clerk shall be
responsible for the publication or posting of any required special notice of
the submission of such matter other than that required to be given of the
statewide or county election issues. (Ref. 32-4,153, 32-4,154 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. No. 514, 10/2/84)
§ 1-711 ELECTIONS; PETITION CANDIDATES.
   Candidates for any Municipal office in the Municipality may be nominated by
petition. Petitions shall contain signatures of registered voters totaling not
less than ten percent (10%) of the total votes received by the candidate
receiving the highest number of votes in the Municipality or ward at the
preceding general election in which officers were last elected to such office.
They shall be accompanied by a treasurer's receipt for the filing fees for the
office being sought. All petitions shall provide a space at least two and one-
half (2½") inches long for written signatures, a space at least two (2") inches
long for printed names, and sufficient space for any additional information
which may be required. Lines on such petitions shall not be less than one-
fourth (¼") inch apart. Petitions may be designed in such a manner that lines
for signatures and other information run the length of the page rather than the
width. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of section 32-713 RS Neb. Petitions must be filed at least sixty
(60) days prior to the State Primary. (Ref. 32-4,156, 32-504, 32-513, 32-535,
32-713, RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 514, 10/2/84)
§ 1-712 ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEN.
   Councilmen shall be elected from the Municipality at large unless the
residents of the Municipality have voted to elect its Councilmen by wards.
Councilmen shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident and
qualified elector. If the election of Councilmen takes place by wards, each
nominee for Councilman shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward
for which he is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate's nomination petitions. (Ref. 32-533, 32-554 RS Neb.)
§ 1-713 ELECTIONS; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county. (Ref. 17-602, 32-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-714 ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall at least fifteen (15) days prior to the State Primary
Elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three (3)
judges and two (2) clerks of election in each election unit in the
Municipality, to be known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees
referred to shall be of good character, approved integrity, well informed, able
to read, write, and speak the English language, reside in the election precinct
in which he is to serve, be entitled to vote in his election unit, and hold
office for a term of two (2) years, or until judges and clerks of election are
appointed for the next State Primary Election. (Ref. 32-403 through 32-412 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 422, 3/1/77)
§ 1-715 ELECTIONS; WARDS.
   The Municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent Federal Census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population. The Municipality shall remain divided into the following wards as
set forth herein:
   FIRST WARD
   All that portion of the Municipality lying north of a line as follows:
Beginning at a point where the center line of 3rd Street intersects the west
corporate limits of the City, thence east along the center line of 3rd Street
to a point where the center line of 3rd Street intersects with the east
corporate limits of the City.
   SECOND WARD
   All that portion of the Municipality lying south of a line as follows:
Beginning at a point where the center line of 3rd Street intersects the west
corporate limits of the City, thence east along the center line of 3rd Street
to a point where the center line of 3rd Street intersects with the east
corporate limits of the City. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 588, 11/7/91; 719, 10/8/01;
846, 9/6/11; 960, 12/7/21)
§ 1-716 ELECTIONS; BALLOTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general Municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering the
ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the Municipality. (Ref.
17-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-717 ELECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   After the canvass of the vote at the Municipal election, the Municipal Clerk
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote, and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by State law, which shall be signed by the Mayor under
the seal of the Municipality, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. The
said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so elected. (Ref. 19-
3040, 19-3041, 32-4,111, 32-4,152 RS Neb.)
§ 1-718 ELECTIONS; INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased, or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he was a candidate, and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than thirty-
five (35%) percent of the total number of votes cast for such office in the
election. If any of the qualifications of this section are not met by the
candidate to be declared elected, or reasonable notice of the winner's
ineligibility is not available to the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be
declared to exist at the time of commencement of the term and shall be filled
as prescribed by law. (Ref. 32-537 (7) & (8) RS Neb.)
§ 1-719 ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   Any or all of the elected officials of the Municipality may be removed from
office by the registered voters of the Municipality. Petition papers, to do
such, shall be procured from and filed with the Municipal Clerk, who shall keep
a sufficient number of such blank petition papers on file for distribution. An
affidavit to procure such papers shall be made by one (1) or more registered
voters and filed with the Municipal Clerk, stating the name and office of the
officer or officers sought to be removed. The Clerk, upon issuing any petition
paper, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her office, the name of
the registered voter or voters to whom issued, the date of such issuance, and
the number of papers issued and shall certify on the papers the name of the
registered voter or voters to whom the papers were issued and the date they
were issued.
   Circulators of such petitions shall comply will all requirements of the
Statutes of Nebraska. Such petition demanding that recall be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least thirty-five percent (35%) of the total votes cast at the last General
Municipal Election, except for an office where more than one (1) candidate is
chosen in which case the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the number of votes cast for
the person receiving the most votes for such office in the last General
Election. If officers are elected by ward, only registered voters of that
officer's ward may sign a recall petition or vote at the recall election.
   All petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature verification as
one instrument within thirty (30) days of issuance of the original petition
papers. Within ten (10) days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall
ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of
registered voters and shall attach to the petition a certificate showing
whether any signatures need to be corrected in order to comply with the
requirements of this section and State Statutes. If the Clerk finds incorrect
signatures, he or she shall promptly notify the person filing the petition that
the petition may be cured at any time within ten (10) days after the giving of
such notice by the filing of a supplementary petition, with the corrected
signatures, on additional petition papers issued and filed as provided for the
original petition. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of
the petition and no signatures may be removed unless the Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed. The
Clerk shall, within five (5) days after any correction, examine the corrected
petition and attach a certificate as in the case of the original petition. If
the certificate shows the corrected petition to be insufficient or if no
correction was made, the Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office
without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   If the petition or corrected petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk
shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination and shall notify the officer whose removal is sought. If the
officer does not resign within five (5) days after the notice, the Clerk shall
submit, within ten (10) days after the five (5) day period has elapsed, the
original petition and supplement, together with his or her certificates, to the
Governing Body. Upon receipt of such petition and certificate, the Governing
Body shall order an election to be held not less than thirty (30) nor more than
forty-five (45) days after the five (5) day period, except that if any other
election is to held in that district within ninety (90) days of the five (5)
day period the Governing Body may provide for the holding of the removal
election on the same day.
   No recall petition shall be filed against members of the Governing Body
within twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six (6) months from the end of his or her term of
office. (Ref. 32-1401 through 32-1408 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 454, 10/2/79) (Amended
by Ord. No. 514, 10/2/84)
§ 1-720 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-4,157
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 514, 10/2/84)
ARTICLE 8: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 1-801 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Municipality for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations, shall begin the first (1st) day in August of each year. (Ref.
17-701 RS Neb.)
§ 1-802 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET STATEMENT.
   The Governing Body shall, not later than the first (1st) day of August of
each year on forms prescribed and furnished by the Nebraska State Auditor,
prepare in writing and file with the Municipal Clerk a proposed budget
statement containing the non-tax revenue which was allocated to each of the
several funds, the unencumbered cash balance of each fund at the beginning and
end of the prior fiscal year, the amount received by taxation allocated to each
fund, and the actual expenditures for each fund. For the current fiscal year,
the budget statement shall contain the actual and estimated revenue from non-
tax sources, the actual unencumbered cash balance available at the beginning of
the year, the amount to be received from taxation allocated to each fund, and
the amount of actual and estimated expenditures. For the immediate ensuing
fiscal year, the budget statement should include an estimate of the non-tax
revenue from each source and which fund it is to be allocated to, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance for each fund which will be available at
the beginning of the next fiscal year, amounts proposed to be expended during
the year, and the amount of cash reserve which shall not exceed fifty (50%)
percent of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items. The
amount to be raised from taxation, as determined herein, plus the estimated
revenue from sources other than taxation, and the unencumbered balances shall
equal the estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the ensuing
year. (Ref. 23-923, 23-924 RS Neb.)
§ 1-803 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET HEARING.
   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the Governing
Body shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as
well as a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. After such hearing, the statement shall be
adopted, or amended, and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made
of such hearing. If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that
shown in the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes
shall be published within twenty (20) days after its adoption. (Ref. 23-925 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-804 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET FILING.
   The Governing Body shall file with, and certify to the levying board on, or
before September First (1st) and file with the Nebraska State Auditor a copy of
the adopted budget statement, together with the amount of the tax to be levied
and proof of publication. The Governing Body shall not certify any tax that
exceeds the maximum levy prescribed by State law; provided, in certifying the
amount to be so levied, allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not
exceeding five (5%) percent of the amount to be levied plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year. (Ref. 23-927 RS
Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 430, 11/15/77)
§ 1-804.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (1)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the Governing Body in
September, the Governing Body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the Municipality. Except as provided in subsection (2) of
this section, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the
total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the
prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
   (2)   The restriction on expenditures in subsection (1) of this section may
be exceeded upon the express finding of the Governing Body that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the Municipality to meet
its statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Governing Body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the Municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision. (Ref. 13-509.01, 13-509.02 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 637, 6/6/95)
§ 1-804.02 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   Public funds shall mean all money, including nontax money, used in the
operation and functions of governing bodies. For purposes of a county, city or
village which has a lottery established under the Nebraska County and City
Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually received by the county,
city or village from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered public
funds, and public funds shall not include amounts awarded as prizes. (Ref. 13-
503 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 636, 6/6/95)
§ 1-805 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-806 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Governing Body shall, on or before August 15th, pass an ordinance to be
termed The Annual Appropriation Bill, in which are appropriated such sums of
money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the Municipality, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of
tax authorized to be levied. The said ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which such appropriations are to be made, and the amount
appropriated for each purpose. Any balance unexpended and unobligated at the
end of the fiscal year shall, unless reappropriated, lapse into the general
fund. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.)
§ 1-807 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The Governing Body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the
amount of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property
of the Municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing
year, including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax
which may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the legal maximum as prescribed by State law. (Ref. 17-702 RS Neb.)
§ 1-808 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
   No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any
one (1) year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement. (Ref. 17-708 RS Neb.)
§ 1-809 [RESERVED].
§ 1-810 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, except in villages having a population of less than eight
hundred (800), and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Ref. 19-2901 through 19-2909 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 431, 11/15/77)
§ 1-811 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
   All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five percent (85%) of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn; provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five percent (85%), but not more
than one hundred percent (100%) of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§ 1-812 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund. (Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§ 1-813 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The Governing Body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the Governing Body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
Governing Body, the Governing Body shall file with the County Clerk and the
Nebraska State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the
amount of additional tax to be levied. The Governing Body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as "registered warrants," and
shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes
levied therefor. (Ref. 23-928, 23-929 RS Neb.)
§ 1-814 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§ 1-815 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS.
   The Governing Body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by State law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the Municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by State law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
Municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by State law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the Governing
Body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the Municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general Municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three (3) times on
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The Governing Body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
State law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the Governing
Body in the manner provided by State law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the Governing Body is authorized to do so by sixty percent
(60%) of the qualified electors of the Municipality voting at a general
election favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund. (Ref. 19-1301
through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339 RS Neb.)
§ 1-816 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 1-817 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, as a member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the City
shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or
qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for such
municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions (1) a bond in such
penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount
insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu
thereof, (2) security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The City Council
shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer shall not be
liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such
depository so designated and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required. (Ref. 77-2362 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Section 77-2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 17-607, 77-2362 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 755, 4/6/04)
§ 1-818 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body of such city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. (Ref. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 568, 12/5/89)
§ 1-819 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-612, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-
529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§ 1-820 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council has determined that the fee structure for services and
products provided by the City shall be as follows.
Master Fee Schedule
Master Fee Schedule
Building Permit Fees and Valuation Schedule      See §
                                                 9-205
Zoning Fees
   Administrative re-plat                     $50 plus $25 per lot
   Conditional use permit                     $50
   Subdivision preliminary plat               $100 plus $5 per lot, $500
                                                 maximum
   Subdivision final plat                     $100 plus $5 per lot
   Variance request                           $50
   Zoning change request                      $50
   Infrastructure development                  
   Engineering review                         Actual charges
Occupation Taxes                                 See §
                                                 10-501
Annual Licenses and Fees
   Dog licensing - up to 3 dogs (spayed or    $8 per pet
neutered)
   Dog licensing - up to 3 dogs (unspayed or  $13 per pet
unneutered)
   Tobacco license                            $10
   Fireworks                                  $100
   Garbage/refuse license                     $50
   Solicitor/peddler permits                   
      1 week per individual                $15
      1 month per individual               $35
Public Records and Copy Request
   8½ x 11 regular copy                      $0.10 per page (incl. tax)
   8½ x 11 regular copy color                $0.25 per page (incl. tax)
   8½ x 11 regular fax (incoming)            $0.25 per page
   8½ x 11 regular fax (outgoing)            $0.50 first page; $0.25 each
                                                 additional page
   8½ x 14 legal size copy                   $0.20 per page (incl. tax)
   8½ x 14 legal size copy color             $0.35 per page (incl. tax)
   Official size plat map                     $6
   Official size zoning map                   $6
   Comprehensive Plan                         $50
   Zoning Regulations                         $50
   Subdivision Regulations                    $25
Response to Code Violations and Other Incidents
* Includes time of one city employee to operate
   Nuisance mowing*                           $100 per hour
   Weed eater*                                $75 per hour
   Snow plow*                                 $125 per hour
   Street sweeper*                            $75 per hour
   Backhoe*                                   $225 per hour
   Bucket truck*                              $300 per hour
   ½ ton pick-up*                            $50 per hour
   Dump truck*                                $100 per hour
   Parking citation paid within 5 days        $10
   Parking citation paid past 5 days up to 30 $15
days
   Gun permit                                 $5
   Accident report                            $5
Snow Removal (1-hour schedule)
   2 dump trucks @$35                         $70
   1 loader @$40                              $40
   3 men @$40                                 $120
      Total                                $230
4-inch snow = 1 hour
6-inch snow = 1½ hour
8-inch snow = 2 hours
Recreation Fees
   Community Hall rental                       
      Webermeier Community Room            $50
      Webermeier Community Room (deposit)  $50
      Sr. Center Building                  $100
      Sr. Center Building (deposit)        $50
      Fire Station meeting room            $150
      Fire Station meeting room (deposit)  $100
   Vehicle license
      Golf cart                            $50
      ATV/UTV                              $50
   Baseball/softball field rental              
      Per field                            $40
      Lights                               $10 per hour
      Tournaments                           
         Per field/ per day             $125 per day
         Concessions                     
            One day                  $125
            Two days                 $200
            Three days               $275
         Damage deposit per tournament  $500
Cemetery                                          
      Lot sales                            $250 per space
      Headstone placement                  $50
   Columbarium                                 
      Tier 1                               $1,000 single, $1,500 double
      Tier 2                               $1,600
      Tier 3                               $1,800
      Open/Close:                          $800 single, $1,500 double
      Engraving:                           $600 single, $1,000 double
      Emblem:                              $150 single, $250 double
      No charge for military symbol         
 
(Ord. No. 905, 5/3/16) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 905, 11/7/17; 924, 12/5/17; 925,
12/5/17; 949, 6/2/20; 963, 7/5/22; 972, 8/1/23; 982, 11/5/24)
ARTICLE 9: COMPENSATION
§ 1-901 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The Compensation of any elective official of the Municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the compensation of
the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he resigns and desires to be
rehired during the unexpired term of office. He may be rehired after the term
of office during which he resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall be
set by ordinance of the Governing Body and will be available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-108.02, 17-612 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-902 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   BUSINESS ASSOCIATION means a business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
      An individual who occupies a confidential professional relationship
protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This definition shall
not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if the filer reports
the name and address of the stockbroker. (Ref. 49-1408 RS Neb.)
      (2)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a child residing in an individual's
household, a spouse of an individual, or an individual claimed by that
individual or that individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax
purposes. (Ref. 49-1425 RS Neb.)
      (3)   OFFICER means:
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
         (b)   Any elected municipal official.
      OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance drivers with
respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in sections 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04 RS Neb.,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the county attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who (1) has no business association with the business
involved in the contract or (2) will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or
commission as a result of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest
within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to (1) all employees or (2) all employees within
a classification and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Section 49-14,102 RS Neb. does not apply to contracts covered by this
section. (Ref. 49-14,103.01 RS Neb.)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this division (H)(1)
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Ref. 49-14,103.02 RS Neb.)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section. (Ref. 49-14,103.03 RS Neb.)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.05 RS Neb.)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such body may
have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.06 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 498, 10/4/
83; 515, 10/2/84; 535, 9/2/86)
§ 1-903 RETIREMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Retirement Plan of the City of Milford, Nebraska attached to
Ordinance 833 is made a part of and incorporated by reference into this section
and said Retirement Plan is restated into this section, and said Retirement
Plan is restated effective on April 6, 2010.
   (B)   The Mayor and Clerk are hereby directed to execute necessary documents
to implement said Retirement Plan. (Ord. No. 833, 4/6/10)
ARTICLE 10: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 1-1001 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   The Governing Body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in
section 44-4303 RS Neb., may make and execute an agreement providing for joint
and cooperative action in accordance with sections 44-4301 through 44-4339 RS
Neb., to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the
purpose of providing to members risk management services and insurance
coverages in the form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including
any combination of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect
members against losses arising from any of the following:
   1.   General liability;
   2.   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property, including
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   3.   Errors and omissions liability; and
   4.   Workers' compensation liability.
(Ref. 44-4301 through 44-4339 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 549, 10/6/87)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISION
§ 1-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      Article
         
1.   STANDING COMMITTEES
         
2.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
         
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 2-101 COUNCILMEMBERS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   The Mayor with the consent of the Council, shall appoint one (1)
member of the Council to each of the following Departments:
      (A)   Parks
      (B)   Recreation
      (C)   Streets
      (D)   Police
      (E)   Fire
      (F)   Water
      (G)   Sewer
      (H)   Cemetery
   (2)   Each Councilmember shall be responsible for the general supervision of
his or her Department, and shall be responsible for the supervision of the
municipal function to which he or she has been assigned. Each Councilmember
shall periodically report to the Mayor and Council concerning his or her
Department, and shall be the liaison between the personnel responsible for such
municipal function and the Mayor and Council. Provided, however, no
Councilmember shall have authority to act independently of or contrary to
directions of the Mayor and Council. (Amended by Ord. No. 701, 3/14/00) 
§ 2-102 STANDING COMMITTEES AND BOARDS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint members of
such Standing Committees and Boards as the City Council may by ordinance or
resolution create. The membership of such Standing Committees and Boards may be
changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each Standing Committee and Board. After the initial appointment of Standing
Committee members and Boards, each Council appointment to a Standing Committee
shall be re- appointed at the annual organizational meeting of the Council, and
approved by the Council, unless otherwise provided.
   (2)   There shall be at least one (1) Councilmember appointed to each
Standing Committee or Board. All meetings thereof will be open to the
attendance of the public. An agenda will be prepared and shall contain the time
and specific place for each meeting with enumeration of the agenda subjects.
The Committee or Board shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only, as provided by law.
   (3)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for posting an agenda of the
Committee or Board meetings, The Committee or Board Chairman shall be
responsible for determining the necessity for a Committee meeting and the
agenda therefor. Minutes of the Committee or Board shall be recorded by a
secretary to be appointed by the Chairman and a permanent copy retained in a
file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (4)   The following Standing Committees are hereby created:
      (A)   Webermeier Scholarship Committee.
      (B)   Swimming Pool Board.
      (C)   Webermeier Library Board.
      (D)   Milford Senior Center Board.
(Ord. No. 701, 3/14/00) (Amended by Ord. No. 977, 10/3/23)
ARTICLE 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 2-201 LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Library Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the
Governing Body. The Board shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
residents of the Municipality. The members of the Library Board shall serve a
four (4) year term of office as specified by Nebraska Statutes. The Board shall
serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the
Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing
Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the
time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in October of each year, the Board
shall organize by selecting from their number a chairman and secretary. It
shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman, or any
three (3) members of the Board. The Library Board shall have the authority to
appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be the duty of the Board
to have general charge of the Municipal Library and to establish appropriate
rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the same. The
Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the library
including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the
review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such additional duties as the Governing
Body may designate from time to time. No member of the Governing Body shall
serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of office as a
member of the Governing Body. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the
capacity of both the chairman and secretary of the Board. (Ref 51-202 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 741, 6/3/03)
§ 2-202 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Governing Body shall appoint the Planning Commission which shall consist
of five (5) members who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the Municipality and who shall be residents of
the Municipality. However, one (1) of such members may be residents of the area
over which the Municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation. The members of the Commission shall serve a three
(3) year term unless reappointed. The Commission shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to
give bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Commission's
first (1st) meeting in June of each year, the Commission shall organize by
selecting from its membership a Chairman and Secretary. It shall be the duty of
the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings
and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The Planning Commission shall be
funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman or any
three (3) members of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Commission to
make and adopt plans for the physical development of the Municipality,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission's judgment,
bear relation to the planning of the Municipality. All actions by the
Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Governing
Body. Recommendations from the Commission shall be received by the Governing
Body within twenty (20) days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements,
building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or
zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Governing Body, or other Municipal official, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning
Commission while serving any other term of office. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairman and Secretary of
the Commission. (Ref. 19-924 through 19-929 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos.
444, 12/19/78; 638, 6/6/95; 690, 3/2/99)
§ 2-203 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Governing Body shall appoint the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall
consist of five (5) members who shall be residents of the Municipality. Each
member of the Board shall serve a term of three (3) years, unless reappointed,
and shall be removable only for good and sufficient cause by the Governing Body
upon written charges and after a public hearing. The members of the Board shall
serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the
Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing
Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. One (1)
member of the Board of Adjustment shall be at the same time a member of the
Planning Commission at all times. Upon the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission the said member shall also lose his membership on the Board of
Adjustment. The Board shall organize at its first (1st) meeting in June of each
year and elect from its membership a chairman and secretary. It shall be the
duty of the secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of all Board
meetings and to file the same at the office of the Municipal Clerk for
examination at any reasonable time by the public. The Board of Adjustment shall
be funded from time to time out of the General Fund by the Governing Body.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as the Governing Body may
designate, or at such other times as the chairman may, in his discretion call a
meeting. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three (3)
members of the Board. A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. It shall be the duty of the Board to hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by a Municipal official based on any zoning
ordinance of the Municipality; to hear and decide in accordance with the
provisions of any zoning ordinance, requests for interpretation of any map or
decision relating to zoning regulations; and authorize a variance from the
strict application of any zoning ordinance if it is found that a specific piece
of property, due to exceptional specifications existing at the time of passage
of the said ordinance, would result in exceptional difficulties and undue
hardship; Provided, that no variance shall be granted if the undue hardship
appears to affect the property in the district generally, or if the situation
of the property concerned appears to be so general or recurring in nature as to
make reasonably practicable, the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted by the Governing Body as an ordinance. The concurring vote of four (4)
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by a Municipal official on any matter which was
governed by any Municipal zoning ordinance. In the event that the Governing
Body fails or neglects to appoint the appropriate number of Board members, the
Governing Body shall constitute the Board of Adjustment and shall have the same
duties, powers, and authority as provided herein. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
Governing Body may designate. No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a
member of the Board of Adjustment except as herein provided. No member of the
Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both chairman and secretary
of the Board. (Ref. 19-907 through 19-910, 84-155 RS Neb.)
§ 2-204 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist of
four (4) members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairman; the Police Chief, who shall serve as secretary and
quarantine officer; a physician who shall serve as the medical advisor; and the
President of the City Council. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one (1) year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first (1st) meeting in June of each year. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health
shall be funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General
Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman, or any
two (2) members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules
and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard
the health of the residents of the Municipality. Included in the duties of the
Board shall be to enforce the said rules and regulations, and to provide fines
and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the
State of Nebraska and ordinances of the Municipality relating to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the Governing Body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one (1) Board
of Health position. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 432, 11/15/77)
§ 2-205 RECREATION BOARD.
   (1)   The Governing Body shall appoint the Recreation Board. The Board shall
consist of (7) members, who shall be residents of the Municipality. The members
of the Board shall serve a three (3) year term of office. The terms of each
current member of said Board shall end on the first Tuesday in January 1, 2006
and commencing with the expiration of said terms, two (2) members shall be
reappointed for a term of one (1) year; two (2) members shall be appointed for
a term of two (2) years; and three (3) members shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to post bond in a sum set by
resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance
of their duties. At the time of the Board's first (lst) meeting in January of
each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairman
and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meeting, and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as it may
designate. The City Councilmember appointed to the Recreations Department shall
serve as an ex-officio member of the Board. All recreational facilities shall
be under the direct charge of the Recreation Director. The Board shall develop
and recommend to the Mayor and City Council appropriate rules and regulations
for the use, care and general operation of the same. The Board shall also make
recommendations regarding recreation program planning and fees, and shall study
and promote needs for recreation facility improvements. All employees of the
Municipality doing work in or for the Municipal Recreational Facilities shall
be under the supervision and direction of the Maintenance Superintendent of the
City.
   (2)   The Recreation Board shall make recommendations to the Mayor and
Council on contracts of any nature involving expenditures in accordance with
the policies of the City Council, and to the extent that funds may be provided
for such purposes.
   (3)   The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing
such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. No
member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Recreation Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the Governing Body.
(Ord, No. 756, 5/3/04) (Amended by Ord. No. 771, 8/2/05)
§ 2-206 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The Governing Body shall appoint the Cemetery Board, which shall consist of
five (5) members who are residents of the Municipality and who shall serve
without compensation. Two (2) members of the initial Board shall be appointed
for a term of three (3) years, two (2) members of the initial Board shall be
appointed for a term of two (2) years and one (1) member of the initial Board
shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year. Thereafter the term of each
member shall be a term of three (3) years. At the first (1st) meeting in
January of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership
a Chairman and Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection  at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as it may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman or any three (3) members of
the Board. The maintenance of the Municipal Cemetery shall be under the direct
control of the Municipality's Utilities Superintendent. The Board shall be
responsible for the general administration of the Municipal Cemetery with the
power and authority to limit and regulate the number of cemetery lots that may
be owned by the same person; to prescribe rules for enclosing, adorning and
erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse
or improper use thereof; provided, no religious tests shall be made as to the
ownership of lots, the burial therein, and ornamentation of graves. The Board
shall develop and recommend to the Mayor, City Council and City Clerk rules and
regulations for the proper use of the Cemetery and prescribe penalties and
fines for violations thereof. The Board shall also study and recommend the
development, expansion and improvement of cemeteries. All revenue from the sale
of lots, gifts, or by devise shall be used for the care, management and
administration of the Cemetery. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Governing Body and it shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such additional duties as the Governing
Body may designate. No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of
the Board while serving a term of office as a member of the Governing Body. No
member of the Cemetery Board shall hold more than one (1) Cemetery Board
office. One (1) member of the Governing Body shall be designated as the liaison
between the Governing Body and the Cemetery Board. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 737,
4/11/03; 745, 11/4/03)
§ 2-207 MILFORD SENIOR CENTER BOARD; CREATION; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; SENIOR
CITIZEN'S PROGRAM.
   1.   It is the purpose of this ordinance to authorize provision of a varied
program of group activities and services to be offered through the Senior
Citizen's Program and Senior Center in the City of Milford, Nebraska, and to
establish, arrange for and deliver special individual and in-home services for
those elderly whose independence and self-sufficiency is threatened by
conditions beyond their control, and to develop the organizational and
financial support within the community to ensure long-term stability and
continuity of the center and its program by the utilization of all federal and
state grants and funding available, and fees and assessments from the
participants of the program, together with additional financial assistance from
the City of Milford necessary to operate the program.
   2.   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, shall appoint
the initial Milford Senior Center Board (the "Senior Center Board"), consisting
of five (5) members, two (2) of whom shall serve from their appointment through
the first (1st) Tuesday in January, 1990; and three (3) of whom shall serve
from the date of their appointment through the first (1st) Tuesday in January
1, 1991; thereafter the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council,
shall appoint all future Senior Center Board members for a term of two (2)
years. No member shall serve for more than two (2) consecutive terms.
   3.   The Senior Center Board shall serve without compensation. At the time
of its initial meeting following appointment of its members, and on its first
(1st) meeting in January of each succeeding year, the Senior Center Board shall
organize by selection of a chairperson, secretary and any additional officers
deemed necessary. No member may serve in more than one (1) office. The
Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and
file the same with the Municipal Clerk, where they shall be available for
public inspection. All expenditures shall be paid by the City Clerk subject to
approval by the City Council, upon vouchers presented by the Senior Center
Board.
   4.   A majority of the Senior Center Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. It shall meet on the fourth (4th) Thursday of
each month, or such other time as shall be determined by the Senior Center
Board. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
three (3) members of the Senior Center Board, but notice of such meeting shall
be communicated to all members of the Senior Center Board at least forty-eight
(48) hours prior to the special meeting.
   5.   The City may employ a manager and such other employees and/or
volunteers for the program as may be required, and the salary and terms of such
employment shall be determined and fixed by the City Council. The Senior Center
Board shall have general control of the Aging Services Program, and may
establish appropriate policies, plans and proposed budgets for operation of the
program, utilizing all of the available federal and state funding, to make the
program as self-supporting as possible from such funds and from fees and
assessments from the citizens taking part in such programs.
   6.   All funds and financing, including gifts, grants, fees and assessments
shall be maintained in an account or accounts of the City of Milford for use
and benefit of the Senior Citizen's Program in accordance with this section,
and in accordance with any conditions placed upon such receipts.
   7.   No member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Senior
Center Board, but the Council may appoint one (1) or more Councilmembers to
serve as "ex officio" nonvoting members of the Senior Center Board.
   8.   The Mayor and Council reserves the final decision-making authority
relative to all matters concerning the Senior Citizen's Program established
hereunder, and may modify, amend, enlarge or restrict the scope and operation
of said program by resolution of the Council. (Ord. No. 557, 8/2/88) (Amended
by Ord. No. 977, 10/3/23)
§ 2-208 CITIZEN ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (1)   The number of persons serving on the Citizen Advisory Review Committee
shall be eight (8), all of whom shall be registered voters of the Municipality.
The Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall also be refereed to as the “Milford
Economic Development Committee.” The Committee is further authorized to create
such sub-committees that it deems appropriate. All members of the Citizen
Advisory Review Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the Governing Body, which may include current members of the Committee. The
term of each appointment shall be four (4) years except that commencing in
2013, two (2) members shall be appointed to a term ending at the first regular
meeting in December 2013; two (2) members shall be appointed to a term ending
at the first regular meeting in December, 2014; two (2) members shall be
appointed to a term ending at the first regular meeting in December, 2015; and
two (2) members shall be appointed to serve until the first meeting in
December, 2016. Thereafter each appointment shall be for a term of four (4)
years. At least one (1) member of the Citizen Review Committee shall have
expertise or experience in the field of business, finance or accounting, and
shall be so identified in his or her appointment. No member of the Committee
shall be an elected or appointed city official, an employee of the City, a
participant in decision making position regarding expenditure or program funds,
or an official or employee of any qualifying business receiving financial
assistance under the economic development program, or of any financial
institution participating directly in the economic development program. The
Mayor will designate and appoint an appropriate city official or employee with
responsibility for the administration of the economic development program and
will serve as an ex officio member of the committee with responsibility for
assisting the Committee and providing it with necessary information and advice
on the economic development program.
   (2)   The Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall have regular meetings not
less than quarterly to review the functioning and progress of the economic
development program and to advise the Governing Body of the City with regard to
the program. At least once in every six (6) month period, the Committee shall
report to the Governing Body on its findings and suggestions at a public
hearing called for that purpose. (Ord. No. 688, 12/1/98) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
691, 4/6/99; 869, 3/5/13)
§ 2-209 COMMITTEE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   The City of Milford, Nebraska hereby creates a Community Redevelopment
Agency to function in the manner provided in Section 18-2101 through 18-2144
R.R.S. Neb. The agency may exercise all power and authority granted to a
community redevelopment authority in sections manner provided in §§ 18-2101
through 18-2144 RS Neb. The municipality is also granted the power and
authority to do all community development activities and to do all things
necessary to cooperate with the federal government in all matters relating to
community development program activities as grantee, or as an agent or
otherwise, under the provisions of the federal Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 as amended through the Housing and Community
Development Amendments of 1981. The City may exercise the powers conferred in
§§ 18-2101.01 et seq. RS Neb., it may levy taxes for the exercise of such
jurisdiction and authority and may issue general obligation bonds, general
obligations notes, revenue bonds, and revenue notes, including general
obligation and revenue refunding bonds and notes for the purposes set forth in
such sections and under the power granted to any authority or agency described
therein. The Community Redevelopment Agency created hereunder shall be known as
the “Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Milford, Nebraska”, and
pursuant to § 18-2101.01 RS Neb., the members of said agency shall consist of
and be comprised of the members of the governing body of the City of Milford,
Nebraska. (Ord. No. 873, 4/11/13)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
§ 2-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
      Article
         
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
         
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
         
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
4.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
5.   PARKS
         
6.   SWIMMING POOL
         
7.   LIBRARY
         
8.   CEMETERY
         
9.   DUMPING GROUNDS
         
10.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
         
11.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-101 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent, who shall report to the Standing Committee on
Water and Sewer. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law,
on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. The Water and Sewer Committee shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by resolution and shall file a copy of the rates in the
office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Ref 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305 RS Neb)
§ 3-102 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. The term "main" is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply
or service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
disbursing the same in the Municipality.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term "supply pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term "service pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premise
where the water is to be disbursed.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. The term "separate premise" is hereby defined to be more
than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second (2nd) premise may be a separate dwelling, apartment, building, or
structure used for a separate business.
§ 3-103 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a Municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when, according to
law, the Water and Sewer Committee may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and water rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the Municipality, to which said
contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Water and Sewer Committee may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or
his agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or
premise or place of such violation. No further connection for water service to
said building, premise, or place shall again be made save or except by order of
said Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-104 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
Municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation from the lot
line to the place of disbursement, including the cost of the curb stop. The
cost of installation of the meter shall be paid by the Municipality after the
consumer shall have paid to the Municipality any required deposit and hook-up
fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Provided, the base cost of all
meters shall be that cost of a meter measuring the flow of water through a
service pipe no larger than five-eighths (5/8) of an inch in diameter. Should
the consumer desire a meter to measure the flow of water through a pipe larger
than five-eighths (5/8) of an inch, the cost of that meter in excess of the
cost of the base size meter shall be paid to the Municipality by the consumer.
All meters shall be of the remote reading type, so placed as to provide the
meter reader ready access to the remote dial. The consumer shall be required to
pay the expense of procuring the services of a bonded plumber and shall pay the
expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching, and the necessary labor
to bring water service from said lot line to the place of disbursement. (Ref.
17-542 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 413, 12/21/76; 628, 3/1/94)
§ 3-105 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The customer at his own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service
pipe from the curb stop to the place of disbursement; provided, nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent the Municipality from doing some or all of the
maintenance and charging the consumer for the costs incurred. When leaks occur
in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water service
until the leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction
of the Utilities Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in repair by
the Municipality at the expense of the Municipality. When meters are worn out,
they shall be replaced and reset by the Municipality at the expense of the
Municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to
be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his own recklessness, carelessness,
or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities
Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such meter
repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting
a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested at the
customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number of
times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running two
percent (2%) or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
Municipality. The Municipality reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair the
Municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer's
water service fixtures at Municipal expense. Should a consumer's meter fail to
register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the
meter is out of repair on the basis of the quarterly consumption during the
same quarter of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for
comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any
person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to divert
water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said meter,
or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately.  (Ord. No. 362, 7/16/64)
§ 3-106 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES, WATER DEPOSITS.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on
again; provided, however, that the consumer shall be charged a twenty dollar
($20.00) reconnect fee each time the water is turned on and service is restored
during business hours at the stop box after the original installation of the
hook-up; but the reconnect fee charged shall be forty dollars ($40.00) if the
reconnection occurs outside of business hours (prior to 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00
p.m. during the work week, or anytime during the weekend).
   All new water service consumers of the City to whom water is supplied,
whether tenants, occupants, or owners of the premises shall deposit with the
Clerk at the Municipal Office, a water service deposit as hereinafter provided.
   The amount of water service deposit shall be fixed from time to time by
resolution of the Council, passed and approved by a majority of the members
elected thereto, and the Council shall have authority to create classes of
water users, and to prescribe different amounts of water service deposits for
different classes; provided, however, that the amount of such deposit shall be
uniform as to all users within each class; and provided further that a change
in the amount of water service deposit shall not have retroactive effect, and
shall not be construed to require additional deposits from water service
consumers who have previously made water service deposits, and shall not be
construed as requiring a refund to water service customers who may have
previously deposited a larger deposit.
   All such water deposit funds shall be retained by the City as a guarantee of
payment of water charges and service fees incurred by the depositor, and no
interest shall be paid to the depositor during the time such sum is retained by
the City.
   The water service deposit shall be returned to the applicant, less water
service charges, water rents, connect and disconnect fees, and other arrearages
to the City when the service is no longer desired by the depositor.
   In the event the consumer pays such charges, when due, without default, for
a period of three (3) years, such water deposit shall be refunded to such
customer.  (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 407, 9/7/76; 409, 10/19/
76; 467, 11/20/79; 966, 4/4/23)
§ 3-106.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RATES.
   For the use of the Municipal Water System, each user shall pay a monthly
service fee plus a usage charge as follows:
   (A)   RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS:
      Effective October 1, 2023, a monthly service fee will be charged based on
the size of the water meter plus a per gallon charge for water usage as
follows:
      3/4" Service         $29.00
      3/4" Service Rural       42.25
      1" Service          38.25
      1" Service Rural       57.25
      1½" Service          48.00
      2" Service          55.25
      3" Service         79.25
      4" Service          110.50
   The charge for usage of water per each 1,000 gallons of water used or
fraction thereof, will be computed at $2.70.
   (B)   NON-RESIDENT USERS: All users outside the corporate limits shall pay a
service charge equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the service charges set
forth above and a water usage rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the
charge for usage of water set forth above. (Ord. No. 488, 2/8/83) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 490, 3/8/83; 534, 8/5/86; 625, 2/1/94; 644, 3/7/95; 701, 12/4/00;
816, 11/4/08; 854, 11/1/11; 889, 1/6/15; 927, 5/1/18; 948, 6/2/20; 968, 6/6/23)
§ 3-107 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read water meters
monthly. It shall be the duty of the customers of the Water Department to pay
their bills monthly in net cash at the office of the Municipal Clerk. The
Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Municipal Clerk to charge and collect
from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last examination
together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department.
Bills shall be due upon receipt and if not paid by the 24th day of the month
shall be charged a late payment of twenty dollars ($20.00) and shall be deemed
to be delinquent and subject to disconnection. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written notice
to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment in accordance with
the procedures set forth in §
3-117 of this Code. The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee
set by resolution of the Governing Body and on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk in the event that water is shut off for the nonpayment of any
water bill, to compensate the Municipality for the additional hook-up necessary
to again provide water service to the delinquent customer. (Ref. 17-542, 18-416
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 646, 3/7/95; 657, 2/6/96; 966, 4/4/23)
§ 3-108 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are thirty (30) days or more delinquent in
the payment of water rent, and shall report to the Governing Body at the next
regular meeting the unpaid account with a description of the premises on which
it was used. The report shall be examined and if approved by the Governing
Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk and County
Treasurer to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 646, 3/7/95; 867, 12/4/12)
§ 3-109 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-110 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE.
   The Governing Body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The Municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the Municipality
has no control. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-111 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-112 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Ref. 17-536 RS Neb.)
§ 3-113 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or hereafter may
be laid shall be required, upon notice by the Governing Body, to hook-up with
the Municipal Water System; provided, all new construction begun after the
effective date of this section shall always hook-up to the Municipal Water
System. The owner of any property which has an existing structure which is
served by an existing private well, may upon annexation of said real estate,
request that the connection requirement be deferred until the earlier of such
time as (1) the well requires replacement, or (2) the property is no longer
owned by the current owners. Each property owner requesting such deferral shall
submit a written request together with the municipality, which shall included
the name and address of the owner or owners; the legal description of the real
estate; and an agreement that the water system must be connected to the
municipal service upon the earlier of the sale or transfer of ownership of the
real estate by deed, operation of law, or otherwise, or at such time as the
well is in need of replacement. (Ord. No. 809, 6/3/08)
§ 3-114 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his duly authorized agents, shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building to,
or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-115 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-116 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 462, 10/2/79)
§ 3-117 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (1)   The Municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and
remove its properties if the charges for water and sewer service are not paid
on or before the 24th day of the month in which the statement was issued. At
least ten (10) days before any termination, the Department of Utilities shall
give notice by first class mail to any domestic subscriber whose service is
proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first class mail, such mail
shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. As to any subscriber who
has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the Utility Department
by the Department of Public Welfare, such notice shall be by certified mail and
notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Public
Welfare.
   (2)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (a)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (b)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
      (c)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (d)   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (e)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (f)   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
      (g)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five (5) days of
receiving notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department's services for a period of thirty (30) days from such filing. Only
one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this subsection
for each incident of nonpayment of any due account;
      (h)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (i)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
      (j)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that
regard; and
      (k)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section which
has received prior approval from the Governing Body.
   (3)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made
by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may
discontinue services.
   (4)   The procedures adopted by the Governing Body for resolving utility
bills, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments
thereto and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
   (5)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 19-2702 et seq. RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 456, 10/2/79) (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 487, 1/4/83; 646, 3/7/95; 657, 2/6/96; 966, 4/4/23)
§ 3-118 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   All new plumbing must be installed according to the Uniform Plumbing Code,
1985.
   The City shall establish, maintain and enforce backflow regulations for the
prevention of contamination or pollution of the Municipal water supply, which
regulations may be enacted, modified or amended by resolution of the City
Council.
   The City shall operate, test and maintain the integrity of the backflow
program and all backflow devices by inspection by trained and qualified
personnel.
   The City shall inspect old and new water service for possible cross
connections, by an inspector duly qualified for such inspections. Upon
determination of a possible backflow condition, and its degree of hazard, the
inspector shall require the consumer to take corrective steps and/or install
backflow devices as prescribed by the inspector and authorized under the
regulations, and shall maintain a testing schedule of such devices as
determined necessary by the inspector. The cost of installation of all backflow
devices and testing equipment shall be at the expense of the consumer.
   All water customers are hereby required to inform the Water Superintendent
of any and all hazardous compounds used or expected to be used in their water
system at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of such use, and maintain
adequate backflow protection to prevent backflow of such chemicals or compounds
into the Municipal water supply. Hazardous compounds shall include all
compounds which, when drawn into the Municipal water supply, might contaminate
the Municipal water supply.
   The City shall disconnect any water user not complying with the provisions
of this ordinance, and the backflow regulations established hereunder, or the
orders of the Water Superintendent, until such time as requirements are met.
(Ord. No. 582, 3/5/91)
2023 S-18
§ 3-119 WATER SHUT OFF VALVE REQUIRED FOR EACH OCCUPIED DWELLING, APARTMENT,
TOWNHOUSE AND/OR BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT WITHIN A SINGLE STRUCTURE.
   Each separate dwelling unit or commercial business shall have a stop/shut-
off valve on the exterior of the premises, the location of which shall be
determined by the Water Superintendent. When a municipal water service pipe
supplies two (2) or more distinct premises or tenements, there shall be
provided, subject to control of the Water Superintendent, a separate stop/shut-
off for each premises or tenement so that water service from one may be
disconnected without interfering with the water supply to the other premise or
premises. All disconnects shall be located on the exterior of the building, or
in a separate common area within the building to allow disconnection without
entry into the rental unit. This section shall govern all structures
constructed or converted to multiple occupancies or uses after September 6,
2005, and shall not apply to structures which were supplied from a single
municipal water service pipe to two (2) or more distinct premises or tenements
prior to September 6, 2005. (Ord. No. 772, 8/2/05)
§ 3-120 WATER SERVICE; TERMS DEFINED; PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF
BILLS FOR WATER SERVICES; RESUMPTION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the term CUSTOMER or CONSUMER shall
also include the owner of the property to which water services are provided, in
addition to any other customer receiving water services at such property.
   (B)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the payment of
bills for all water services provided by the Municipality to that property, if
they are not timely paid by any other customer occupying such property. Upon
request of the property owner, the Municipality shall send out duplicate bills
to the property owner for each property which is occupied by or rented to any
other customer receiving water services at such property. All water bills shall
be paid in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If water services to a property are discontinued or disconnected for
any reason, including non-payment of any bill by any other customer receiving
waster services at that property, such service shall not be resumed until all
fees, charges and bills for utility services for that property have been paid
in full by such tenant or other customer, or the property owner. (Ord. No. 867,
12/4/12)
§ 3-121 DISCONNECTED WATER SERVICE; DELINQUENT BALANCE ON WATER BILL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property owner to lease, rent or
occupy, or allow any person to rent or occupy any property for which there is a
disconnected water service or delinquent balance on any outstanding water bill
relating to such property., It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on any
water service which has been shut-off by the municipality at the curb stop or
at the meter, for non-payment of an outstanding water bill, until such bill has
been paid. (Ord. No. 867, 12/4/12)
§ 3-122 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred ($500.00). Each
day that a violation of this Article continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. No. 867, 12/4/12)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-201 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through the
Utilities Superintendent, who shall report directly to the Water and Sewer
Committee. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the Municipal Sewer System may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his office. The Water and Sewer Committee shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-149, 17-925.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-202 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following def nitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The terms "Building Sewer'' and "House Sewer" as
used in this Code, shall mean and include that part of a house or building
drainage system extending from the house or building drain to its connection
with the main sewer.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The terms "Building Drain'' and “House Drain” as
used in this Code, shall mean and include that part of the lowest horizontal
piping of a house or building drainage system which receives the discharge from
soil, waste, or other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   SOIL PIPE. The term "Soil Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or without the
discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   WASTE PIPE. The term "Waste Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except water
closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste stack.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. The term "Local Ventilating Pipe" as used in this
Code, shall mean and include any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   VENT PIPE. The term "Vent Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage system and to
prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   TRAP. The term "Trap" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a fitting
or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or gas through a pipe
without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The term "Trap Seal" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
the vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the trap
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. The term "Plumbing Fixtures" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include receptacles intended to receive and discharge water liquid or
water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are connected.
   SEWER SYSTEM. The term "Sewer System" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of
sewage.
   SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a
combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments together with such ground, surface,
and storm waters as may be present.
   SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean
and include a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   STORM SEWER. The term "Storm Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include a sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes sewage
and polluted industrial wastes.
   GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food and
produce.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. The term "Properly Shredded" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include shredding to such a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no
particle larger than one half (½) inch in diameter.
§ 3-203 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furni sh sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid The
Municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound If the customer shall violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the Water and Sewer Committee or Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent, or his agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer
service from the building or premise of such violation No further connection
for sewer service to said building or premise shall again be made save or
except by order of the Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-204 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Utilities Superintendent the property owner,
occupant, or lessee of any premise that abuts a sewer main that is now or
hereafter may be laid shall without delay cause the said building to be
connected with the Sewer System and equipped with inside sewerage facilities.
Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with the Sewer System at
the time of its construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant,
or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse, within a period of thirty (30) days
after notice has been given to him to do so by registered mail or by
publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation in the Municipality, to
make such connection, the Governing Body shall have the power to cause the same
to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property, and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments. The owner of any property which has an existing
structure which is served by a septic system may, upon annexation to the
municipality, request the foregoing sewer connection be deferred for a period
of not exceeding two (2) years from the date said property is annexed to the
municipality. (Amended by Ord. No. 810, 6/3/08)
§ 3-205 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two (2) or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one (1) pipe. (Ref. 17-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-206 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations
or repairs of pipes require two (2) inspections by the Utilities
Superintendent. The first (1st) inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are complete and before the pipes are covered. The second (2nd)
inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service
restored. It is the customers responsibility to notify the Utilities
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body. (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-207 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall pay the cost of installation and pipe from the Municipal
sewer main to the place of disbursement, and shall pay a sewer connection fee
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the City Clerk prior to the
installation of the service. The consumer shall pay the expense of procuring
the services of a bonded plumber, all expense of furnishing and installing
pipe, trenching, the costs of connecting to the City sewer main, including
necessary labor to bring sewer service from the City sewer main to the place of
disbursement. All work shall be done in conformity with the regulations of the
City. No sewer service trench shall be filled or sewer pipe covered until the
service has been inspected by the Utilities Superintendent or his/her designee.
(Amended by Ord. No. 629, 4/5/94; 966, 4/4/23)
§ 3-208 MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such connection. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 516, 10/2/84)
§ 3-209 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
   The Governing Body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§ 3-210 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall compute or cause to be
computed sewer rental bills based upon water usage. It shall be the duty of the
customers of the Sewer Department to pay their bills monthly in net cash at the
office of the Municipal Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the
Municipal Clerk to charge and collect from each customer the computed sewer
rental bill based upon water usage, which shall include all other charges,
properly itemized, due the Sewer Department. Bills shall be due upon receipt
and if not paid by the 24th day of the month shall be deemed to be delinquent,
and subject to disconnection. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein
defined, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer of
such delinquency and shall demand payment in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
3-117 of this Code. The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee
set by resolution of the Governing Body and on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk in the event that sewer service is shut off for the nonpayment
of any sewer rental bill to compensate the Municipality for the additional
hook-up necessary to again provide sewer service to the delinquent customer.
(Ref. 17-925.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 646, 3/7/99; 657, 2/6/96; 966,
4/4/23)
§ 3-211 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
§ 3-212 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the chief sewer
official may require the said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he shall prescribe subject to the
review of the Governing Body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer's expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the Governing Body and an industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or
other charges.
§ 3-213 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the Sewer System any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the Sewer System.
§ 3-214 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official or his authorized agents, shall have free access at
any reasonable time to all parts of each premise and building which is
connected with the Sewer System to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
violations of this Article therein.
§ 3-215 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premise is located outside the corporate limits of the
Municipality and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the Municipal Sewer System, shall file a written application
with the Municipal Clerk for a permit for such connection and setting forth the
name of the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premise, the use to which the
premise is devoted, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require; provided, in all cases the entire cost of installation and maintenance
of any sewer service provided outside the corporate limits shall be paid by the
consumer requesting such service. (Ref. 17-149, 19-2701 RS Neb.)
§ 3-216 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are thirty (30) days or more delinquent in
the payment of sewer rent, and shall report to the Governing Body at the next
regular meeting the unpaid account with a description of the premises on which
it was used. The report shall be examined and if approved by the Governing
Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk and County
Treasurer to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref.
17-925.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 646, 3/7/95; 866, 12/4/12)
§ 3-217 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 462, 10/2/79)
§ 3-218 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CHARGE.
   (1)   For the use of the Municipal Sewage System, each user shall pay a
service fee plus a rental charge which shall be computed and based upon his
contribution of sewage to said system.
   (2)   The monthly contribution of sewage from each user shall be computed
from the user’s average water usage for the months of January, February, and
March of each year. In the event there is no water usage during the entire
three (3) month period, the usage shall be estimated based upon the month or
months of usage for said period that are available. In the event there is no
water usage during any of said months, or in the event of new construction, the
estimated usage determined as follows:
      (a)   For residential properties, the billing shall be the City’s average
monthly residential sewer billings for said three (3) month period.
      (b)   For commercial users, the billing shall be the average monthly
commercial sewer billings for said three (3) month period.
      (c)   In the event the user is served by a private well, the well shall
be metered at the cost of the user, and the sewer fee shall be based upon water
used from said well for the same three (3) month period.
      (d)   Upon the request of any user, the monthly sewer rental shall be
based upon the actual water usage during each month in lieu of the average of
the months of January, February and March as provided above.
   (3)   The rates to be charged to users within the corporate limits of the
City shall be as follows:
      (a)   RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS: The minimum user charge for each
month shall be a service fee of eleven dollars and fifty cents ($11.50) plus a
charge of one dollar and seventy cents ($1.70) per each one thousand (1,000)
gallons (or fraction thereof) of monthly water usage.
      (b)   NONRESIDENT USERS: All users outside the corporate limits shall pay
rates equal to two times the monthly service fee and usage rates set forth in
division (a) above for resident customers.
      (c)   ABNORMAL USERS: All users with sewage which is abnormal
hydraulically or organically, or which contains unusual characteristics such as
heavy solids, abnormal pH, grease, oil or toxic chemicals, and similar
conditions, or of excessive or unusual volume, or in the event the formula set
forth in division (a) does not fairly represent the average usage, the user
shall be subject to rates set by separate contract with the City and such user,
which may require pretreatment by such user as a condition thereof. (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 489, 2/8/83; 539, 12/2/86; 545, 8/4/87; 632, 6/7/94; 645, 3/7/95;
817, 11/4/08; 890, 1/6/15; 3-218, 5/1/18)
§ 3-219 SEWER SERVICE; TERMS DEFINED; PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT OF
BILLS FOR SEWER SERVICES; RESUMPTION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the term CUSTOMER or CONSUMER shall
mean the owner of the property where sewer services are provided, in addition
to any tenant or other customer receiving sewer services at such property.
   (B)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the payment of
bills for all sewer services provided by the Municipality to that property, if
they are not timely paid by any other customer occupying such property. Upon
request of the property owner, the Municipality shall send out separate
duplicate bills to the property owner for each property which is occupied by
any tenant or other customer receiving sewer services at such property. All
sewer bills shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If sewer services to a property are discontinued or disconnected for
any reason including non-payment of bill by the tenant or other customer
receiving waster services at the property, such service shall not be resumed
until all fees, charges and bills for utility services for that property are
paid in full by such tenant or other customer, or by the property owner. (Ord.
No. 866, 12/4/12)
§ 3-220 DISCONNECTED WATER SERVICE; DELINQUENT BALANCE ON WATER BILL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property owner to lease, rent or
occupy, or allow any person to occupy any property for which there is a
disconnected water service or delinquent balance on any outstanding water bill
relating to such property. It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on any
water service which has been shut-off by the municipality at the curb stop or
at the meter, for non-payment of an outstanding water bill, until such bill has
been paid. (Ord. No. 866, 12/4/12)
§ 3-221 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that a violation of this Article continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. No. 866,
12/4/12)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 3-301 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer. The Fire Chief shall manage the
Fire Department and it shall be his duty to inform the Governing Body when any
of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the
written consent and directive of the Governing Body, the Fire Chief shall cause
the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the said equipment and shall
personally supervise and approve of the same. The Governing Body is authorized
to enter into a contractual agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District
for the mutual aid and protection of its residents and is authorized to expend
any necessary monies to provide said mutual aid and protection. (Ref. 17-147,
17-718, 17-953 RS Neb.)
§ 3-302 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§ 3-303 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than 25 members for each fire department company subject to the review
and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the State of Nebraska.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the City for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age sixty-five (65) covering the lives of all of
the City’s active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any
such person serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire
protection district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first
municipality or district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a
minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the
option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at
age sixty-five (65). The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any
individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the fire department
of the city.  (Ref. 35-108 RS Neb.)
   (F)   For purposes of section 33-139.01 RS Neb., volunteer firefighters and
rescue squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not
be deemed employees of the City. (Ref. 33-139.01 RS Neb.)   (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 529, 10/1/85; 751, 1/6/04)
§ 3-304 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 3-305 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the Municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the Municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
§ 3-306 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the Municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
§ 3-307 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; IMPERSONATING FIREMEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a fireman by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a fireman for the purpose of
obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit
the theatrical representation of a fireman for bona fide entertainment purposes
when there is no intent to defraud. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)
§ 3-308 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 3-309 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 3-310 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4: POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 3-401 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. He shall devote his whole time to the
municipal affairs, interests of the Municipality, and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and
enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the Municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 3-402 POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE; OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY;
NOTICE AND HEARING DETERMINATION.
   (1)   No police officer including the Chief of Police, shall be disciplined,
suspended, demoted, removed or discharged except upon written notice stating
the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or
discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the police
officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (2)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten (10) days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty
(20) days after the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City
Council shall give the police officer written notice of the hearing not less
than seven (7) nor more than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing.
   (3)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to: (a)
respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and documentary
evidence; (b) confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and (c)
to be represented by counsel.
   (4)   Not later than thirty (30) days following the adjournment of the
meeting at which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold,
reverse, or modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or
discharge. The failure of the City Council to act within thirty (30) days or
the failure of a majority of the elected Councilmembers to vote to reverse or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge
shall be construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension,
demotion, removal, or discharge. The decision of the City Council shall be
based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at
the hearing, the challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal,
or discharge was necessary for the proper management and the effective
operation of the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the
state statutes.
   (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 680, 2/3/98)
ARTICLE 5: PARKS
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other
recreational areas. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Park may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Governing Body shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks and other
recreational areas of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-948 through 17-952 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 608, 3/2/93)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY; DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS;
VENDORS; AND MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreation areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
   All pets, such as dogs, cats or other domestic animals, are prohibited
unless they are crated, caged, on a leash or otherwise under physical control
of the owner at all times. Horseback riding is permitted only on roadways and
on designated parking areas.
   The vending, including mobile vendors, or various goods and services,
products and commodities, is permitted on park property with the prior written
authorization to a responsible party from the Governing Body. Such vending
without authorization is strictly prohibited. A copy of this written
authorization will be maintained on file with the Municipal Clerk. Said vendors
are prima facie responsible for the maintenance and restoration of any park
property used by them, to specifically include the proper disposal of paper
trash and waste in and around the area of such vending operation.
   All motor vehicles operated on park property shall be done so in accordance
with all provisions of Chapter 5 of the Milford Municipal Code and the laws of
the State of Nebraska. The speed limit within the Municipal Parks shall be
fifteen (15) miles per hour. No motor vehicle shall be parked or driven other
than on designated roadways or parking areas, without prior written permission
of the Governing Body. The operation of golf carts is permitted within South
Park, however, they must remain on the designated roadways and parking areas.
The operation of golf carts is not permitted in Welch Park or the Uptown Park.
The operation of trail bikes, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, minibikes, and
go-carts, is expressly prohibited on all Municipal park property. (Amended by
Ord. No. 610, 4/6/93)
§ 3-503 MUNICIPAL PARKS; HOURS OF ACCESS TO ALL MUNICIPAL PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly
occupy, or be present in all of the Municipal parks, including but not limited
to: Uptown Park, South Park or Welsch Park, between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m., unless such person or an organization sponsoring an after hours
event within said park of which such person is a participant, has obtained a
permit for an after hours event within said park.
   (B)   Special permits to allow access to the Municipal parks during
restricted hours may be obtained by submitting a request for a special permit
on forms provided by the Municipal Clerk, specifically setting forth the hours
of intended after hours use of a Municipal park, the purpose of such event, the
location of such event; the name and address of the responsible supervising
adult; and such other information as shall be requested by the Municipal Clerk
or the Chief of Police. No permit shall be granted without the approval of the
Chief of Police and may be endorsed with restrictions for the protection of
municipal property. All after hour activities must be supervised by a
responsible adult approved by the Chief of Police. (Ord. No. 832, 3/2/10)
ARTICLE 6: SWIMMING POOLS
§ 3-601 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Swimming Pool. The Governing
Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the Swimming Pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the Municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the Swimming Pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Governing
Body may appoint a Pool Committee to assist in the operation and management of
the Swimming Pool, to appoint a Swimming Pool Manager and such employees as
they may deem necessary, and adoption of rules and regulations for the
operation of the Swimming Pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Pool Committee shall be under the supervision and control of
the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-948, 17-951, 17-952 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
608, 3/2/93)
§ 3-602 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Governing Body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Swimming Pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the Municipal Swimming
Pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool
for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 608, 3/2/93)
§ 3-603 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RENTALS.
   The Pool Committee shall have the authority to rent the Municipal Swimming
Pool to such organizations and other persons as they may in their discretion
see fit, subject to the review of the Governing Body. The Board shall prescribe
rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require an appropriate number
of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the rental period. Such fees
and other costs shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and
posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool. (Ref. 17-949 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 608, 3/2/93)
§ 3-604 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Pool Committee shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the Swimming Pool and
for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for
the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
608, 3/2/93)
ARTICLE 7: LIBRARY
§ 3-701 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
RS Neb.)
§ 3-702 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS AND MATERIALS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books and other materials
in the Library. Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective,
obsolete, or duplicate books and other materials so disposed of. (Ref 51-207 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 740, 6/3/03)
§ 3-703 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return books and other materials. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may
be collected in civil actions in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to
pay the said assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
740, 6/3/03)
§ 3-704 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS AND MATERIALS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any books and/or other materials
from the Library shall forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value
of the item in addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library
Board may assess. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 740, 6/3/03)
§ 3-705 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF BOOKS AND OTHER MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book or other materials from the Library,
without the consent of the Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library.
Any person removing a book or other materials from the Library without properly
checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 740, 6/3/03)
§ 3-706 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over quarterly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 8: CEMETERY
§ 3-801 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, maintenance, and beautification of the Cemetery may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds, or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the Cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and
supervise such employees as they may deem necessary and to pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the Governing Body (Ref. 12-301 thru 12-403 RS Neb.)
§ 3-802 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the Governing Body, shall
have the authority to appoint a Sexton who shall perform such duties and make
such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct. It shall be the duty of the
Sexton, upon receiving a burial permit to locate and direct the party named in
the permit to the lot mentioned therein and to dig and excavate, or cause the
same to be dug or excavated, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Cemetery Board.
§ 3-803 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Governing Body may convey cemetery lots by Certificate signed by the
Mayor, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk under the Municipal Seal
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The said Certificate
shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his heirs, and assigns. The
Certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. (Ref. 17-
941 RS Neb)
§ 3-804 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; PERPETUAL CARE.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a percentage of the
entire amount paid for lots or burial spaces if the said lots or burial spaces
are to be endowed with perpetual care. The fund shall be permanent in nature,
and as it accumulates shall be invested in such interest bearing securities as
are authorized by State law. The income earned thereon shall be used solely for
the purposes of perpetual care for the Cemetery lots. Any lot owner who shall
not have, prior to the purchase of his lot, endowed his holdings with perpetual
care, may do so by paying to the Secretary of the Cemetery Board such sum of
money as the Board may in each case fix and determine. Thereafter, the owner
shall not be liable for the payment of an annual maintenance assessment.
§ 3-805 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; BURIAL PERMIT.
   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required to
file a completed death certificate with the Registrar of the County before any
body may be buried in the Municipal Cemetery. If it is impossible to complete
the certificate of death within the legal period of time prescribed by State
law, the funeral director shall notify the Registrar and obtain his written
approval before the deceased person may be buried in the Municipal Cemetery.
The burial permit so issued by the Registrar shall then be filed with the
Municipal Clerk. It shall be unlawful for the Sexton, or other person, to allow
the interment of a body without first receiving such permit. The burial permit
shall then be countersigned and dated by the Sexton. The interment of any body
shall be performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral director.
The applicant shall also file with the burial permit an application containing
the name, age, sex, race, and cause of death of the deceased person for the
records of the Cemetery Board. Upon completion of the requirements herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall then issue a Municipal Burial Permit which shall entitle
the applicant to bury a deceased person in the Municipal Cemetery. In the event
that the removal of the body of any deceased person is requested the Municipal
Clerk shall issue no permit until the applicant shall have first complied with
the laws of the State of Nebraska with respect to such disinterment. (Ref. 71-
605 RS Neb.)
§ 3-806 MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure, or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the Cemetery, or any fence,
railing, or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the Cemetery, or
who shall willfully destroy, cut, break, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant
shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-512 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 9: DUMPING GROUNDS
§ 3-901 MUNICIPAL DUMPING GROUND; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality leases the Municipal Dumping Grounds, and operates the same
through the Dump Caretaker. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Dumping
Grounds may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
State law, on the actual valuation of an real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Dump Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Dump Caretaker shall have the direct management and
control of the Municipal Dump and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his
office. The Dump Caretaker shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Dumping Grounds
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 19-2101 thru
19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 3-902 MUNICIPAL DUMPING GROUNDS; STATE REGULATION.
   The Municipality shall each year apply for a license to operate the
Municipal Dumping Grounds. Application shall be made to the Department of
Environmental Control on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be
charged for such licensing. Each license so issued shall expire on October 1,
following the date of issuance. It shall be the duty of the Dump Caretaker to
comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of
Environmental Control for the use and operation of the Municipal Dumping
Grounds. (Ref. 71-4101 thru 71-4109 RS Neb)
ARTICLE 10: UTILITIES GENERALLY
§ 3-1001 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   The Municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and remove its
properties if the charges for such services are not paid within twenty (20)
days after the date that the same becomes delinquent. Before any termination,
the Department of Utilities shall first give notice by first class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven (7)
days, weekends and holidays excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously
been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the Department of
Social Services, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such
proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Social Services.
      The notice shall contain the following information:
         1.   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
         2.   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
         3.   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
         4.   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
         5.   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
         6.   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
         7.   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five (5) days of
receiving notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department's services for a period of thirty (30) days from such filing. Only
one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this subsection
for each incidence of non-payment of any due account;
         8.   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
         9.   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
         10.   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who
are welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility
bill and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
         11. Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the Governing Body.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for
the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made by the
subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may discontinue
services.
   The procedures adopted by the Governing Body for resolving utility bills,
three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk, are
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are
made a part hereof as though set out in full.
   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 19-2702 et seq. RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 517, 10/2/84)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISION
§ 3-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
      Article
         
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
2.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
         
3.   NUISANCES
         
4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-101 HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-102 HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the Municipality. It shall be his duty to notify the
Governing Body and the Board of Health of health nuisances and of every case of
contagious, infectious, or malignant disease. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-103 HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
ARTICLE 2: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 4-201 GARBAGE; DEFINED.
   The term "garbage" as used herein shall be defined to mean kitchen refuse,
decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become
offensive to the public health.
§ 4-202 RUBBISH; DEFINED.
   The terms "rubbish" or "trash" as used herein shall be defined as discarded
machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees, branches, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or any other litter or debris
that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the
Municipality.
§ 4-203 WASTE; DEFINED.
   The term "waste" as herein defined shall mean cinders, ashes, plaster,
brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
§ 4-203.01 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL; YARD WASTE; DEFINED.
   The term "yard waste" shall mean grass and leaves. (Ref. 13-2016.01 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 640, 6/6/95)
§ 4-204 GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premise, or any other place in the Municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
Municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles as nearly air-tight as may
be practical. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys,
parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse,
waste, or rubbish of any kind. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste, or
refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time
shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
(Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-205 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body for the city may provide for the collection and removal
of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or
alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city
may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot or land to
remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads, or
alleys. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1988-559, 10/4/88)
§ 4-206 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 1988-559, 10/4/88)
§ 4-207 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from such lot or land within forty-eight hours after notice by
personal service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with
section 4-206 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed. (Ref. 18-1303 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 1988-559, 10/4/88)
§ 4-208 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; LIEN.
   Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this article, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal against such
lot or land. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1988-559, 10/4/88)
§ 4-209 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; COLLECTORS; LICENSE.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity
to collect, haul or convey wastes, refuse, garbage, rubbish, junk, hazardous
waste, or solid waste (as those terms are defined under the laws of the State
of Nebraska) for hire within the incorporated area of the City without first
having procured a license to do so.
   (2) Application for a license to collect, haul or convey wastes, refuse,
garbage, rubbish, junk, hazardous waste or solid waste for hire shall be made
to the City Clerk upon application blanks furnished by the City Clerk. Said
application blanks shall set forth the name and residence of the applicant, the
business address of the applicant, the ownership of the vehicle or vehicles to
be used, the number and kinds of vehicles to be used, with a definite
description of each such vehicle and such other information as may be required
to satisfactorily identify the applicant and vehicles. Such applicant shall
file with his application the certificates of approval issued to the applicant
by the Board of Health, and the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the
required license fee as hereafter provided. Before any license shall be issued,
the applicant shall execute and file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with one or more sufficient sureties thereon
to be approved by the City Council, conditioned that said applicant shall
indemnify and save harmless the City from any damage or injury due to or
account of the act, neglect, fault or default of such applicant and conditioned
further that such applicant shall comply with all ordinances or regulations of
the City and State of Nebraska respecting the collecting, hauling or conveying
of wastes, refuse, garbage, rubbish, junk, hazardous waste and solid waste.
Each license shall be renewed annually upon form provided by the City Clerk.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or other legal
entity licensed under this section, or any other person, to haul or convey any
solid waste generated within the corporate limits of the City to any facility
or system (as those terms are defined under State law) with which the City,
either alone or in combination with other cities, villages or counties, has not
contracted for the safe and sanitary disposal of solid waste generated within
the City's jurisdiction area.
   (4)   Each person, corporation, or other legal entity licensed under this
section shall provide, in addition to services regarding the collection,
hauling, and conveying of solid waste, assistance in providing services for
curb side pickup of recyclable materials, yard waste, and discarded appliances.
   (5)   Each person, corporation, or legal entity licensed under this section
shall cooperate with its customer within the City in finding outside sources
for the collection, hauling, conveying and disposal of hazardous waste
generated within the corporate limits of the City.
   (6)   Each licensee shall pay an annual license fee in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00), which shall be paid at the time of license application, and
thereafter at the time of each annual renewal of said license. (Ord. No. 624,
11/2/93)
ARTICLE 3: NUISANCES
§ 4-301 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any
of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   1.   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl.
   2.   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous.
   3.   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises.
   4.   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the Municipality.
   5.   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings and
offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity;
provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of the
Municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer.
   6.   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron, wire
metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken
glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be
kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles.
   7.   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof.
   8.   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof.
   9.   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof.
   10.   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground.
   11.   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the Municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health.
   12.   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code. (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-302 NUISANCES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (1)   Each lot or piece of ground within the City, and within its zoning
jurisdiction, shall be drained or filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any
other nuisance accumulating thereon. The owner or occupant of any lot or piece
of ground within the City shall keep such lot or piece of ground, and the
adjoining streets and alleys, free of any growth of twelve (12) inches or more
in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful to throw, deposit, or accumulate or allow the
accumulation of litter on any lot or piece of ground within the City or within
its zoning jurisdiction, or for any owner or occupant of said lot or piece of
ground to permit or allow the deposit or accumulation of litter upon property
under his or her control or ownership, except in proper receptacles, or to
allow, permit or suffer any nuisance as defined in section 4-301 of this Code
to exist upon any lot or parcel of ground as determined by the Board of Health.
   (3)   In addition to the foregoing, the Municipality may give notice to
abate such nuisance in the following manner:
      (a)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or official designated by
the City Council that the owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee has failed to
keep the real estate free of public nuisances, the City Clerk shall thereupon
cause notice to abate and remove such nuisance to be served upon the owner or
owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service,
certified mail, or first-class mail. If notice is given by first-class mail,
such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. The notice shall
describe the condition as found by the Board of Health or designated official,
state that the condition has been declared a public nuisance and that the
condition must be remedied at once, and inform the recipient of the right to an
appeal hearing before the City as provided by this Code and the manner in which
it may be requested.
      (b)   Within five (5) days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the City
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the City
may have or cause such work to be done to abate such nuisance. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two (2)
months after such work is done, the City may either (i) levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed
or (ii) recover in a civil action the cost and expenses of the work upon the
lot or piece of ground adjoining the streets and alleys.
      (c)   If within five (5) days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant requests in writing a hearing by the City in appeal of the
determination of the Board of Health or designated enforcement official, the
City shall, upon receipt of that notice, cause a hearing date to be fixed and
notice thereof to be served upon the owner, owner's duly authorized agent, or
occupant. This notice of hearing shall be by personal service, certified mail,
or first class mail, in a manner calculated to provide notice to the party or
parties of the hearing within a reasonable time and not less than two (2) days
prior to the hearing, unless the City and the party or parties agree to a
lesser time of notice, and require the party or parties to appear before an
elected or appointed City officer designated by the Board of Health as a
hearing officer for such appeals, to show cause why the condition should not be
found to be a public nuisance and remedied. Upon the date fixed for the hearing
and pursuant to notice, which hearing shall be held within fourteen (14) days
after the filing of the appeal, the hearing officer shall hear all objections
made by interested parties and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of
Health or designated enforcement official. If, after consideration of all of
the evidence, the hearing officer shall find that the condition is a public
nuisance, the hearing officer shall order and direct, in a written decision on
the appeal made within five (5) business days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the owner, owner's authorized agent, or occupant to remedy the public
nuisance at once; provided, the party or parties may appeal the decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of
the hearing officer shall be stayed. Should the owner or occupant refuse or
neglect to comply with the order of the City within ten (10) days of issuance
of the decision on appeal, the City may proceed to cause the abatement of the
described public nuisance. The costs and expenses of abatement shall be paid by
the owner. If unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the City may
either (i) levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed or (ii) recover in a civil action the cost
and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground adjoining the streets
and alleys.
   (4)   For purposes of this section:
      (a)   Litter shall include, but not be limited to: (i) trash, rubbish,
refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes; (ii) wood, plaster, cement, brick, or
stone building rubble; (iii) grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation; (iv)
offal and dead animals; and (v) any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles,
or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character,
utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the
ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions,
or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk;
and
      (b)   Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (cerntaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense),
nodding or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle
(sonchus arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp. Tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa), and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
      (c)   Nuisances shall include, but are not limited to, those items
defined in section 4-301 of this Code. (Ord. No. 394, 12/16/75) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 617, 6/1/93; 661, 6/6/96; 950, 7/7/20)
§ 4-303 NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the Municipality are directed to enforce
this Municipal Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
Chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within two (2) miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-304 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Governing Body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
Municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial. (Ref. 19-710 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 528, 10/1/85)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 4-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC
      Article
         
1.   DEFINITIONS
         
2.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
3.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
         
4.   BICYCLES, MINIBIKES AND MOPEDS
         
5.   PARKING
         
6.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this Chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Chapter 60 of the
Reissued Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or hereafter
amended. If not defined in the designated statute, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning. (Ref. 60-605 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 941, 7/2/
19)
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 5-201 PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of any vehicle shall stop when a pedestrian is crossing the
roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at the end
of the block, and shall remain stopped until such time as such pedestrian shall
have completed the crossing of such roadway, except at intersections where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by a police officer or traffic control
signal. Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point other
than a marked or unmarked crosswalk shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the roadway; Provided, that this provision shall not relieve the driver of
a vehicle from the duty to exercise due care for the safety of pedestrians.
§ 5-202 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 39-6,189 RS Neb.)
§ 5-203 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the Municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-204 TRAFFIC LANE; DESIGNATION.
   The Chief of Police may, with the consent of the Governing Body, mark lanes
for traffic on street pavements at such places as it may deem advisable. (Ref.
39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-205 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Chief of Police, with the consent of the Governing Body, may designate
any street or portion thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for
appropriate signs or markings when such street has been so designated. (Ref.
39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-206 TURNING; "U" TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction, or to
park on the opposite side of the street from the direction in which such
vehicle is traveling, except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be
turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an
automatic signal is in operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-
turns are prohibited. U-turns are prohibited at the intersections of the
following streets:
   First Street and Elm Street,
   First Street and Maple Street,
   First Street and Walnut Street,
   First Street and A Street,
   First Street and B Street,
   First Street and C Street,
   First Street and D Street,
   First Street and E Street, and
   First Street and F Street.
(Ref. 39-651, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-207 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 39-650 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-208 TURNING; CAUTIOUS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, he shall
give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
intention to make such movement. (Ref. 39-644, 39-652, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-209 RIGHT-OF-WAY; GENERALLY.
   When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal
Policeman stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or
audible signals. (Ref. 39-635 through 39-643 RS Neb.)
§ 5-210 RIGHT-OF-WAY; OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle. (Ref. 39-622 RS Neb.)
§ 5-211 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one (1) block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop,
except at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which
event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop.
Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move
to a position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until
such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; Provided, said
vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of
proper visual or audible signals. (Ref. 39-640 RS Neb.)
§ 5-212 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one half (1/
2) of the main traveled portion of the roadway. (Ref. 39-620 RS Neb.)
§ 5-213 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; PASSING.
   A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center line of the highway
in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction,
unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
(Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§ 5-214 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way. (Ref. 39-
675, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-215 CROSSWALKS.
   The Chief of Police may, with the consent of the Governing Body, establish
and maintain, by appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street,
crosswalks, at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary. (Ref.
39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-216 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The Chief of Police may, with the consent of the Governing Body provide for
the placing of stop signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical
devices in any street or alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating, or prohibiting traffic thereon. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-217 PREFERENTIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or,
if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such
intersection. (Amended by Ord. No. 789, 4/3/07)
ARTICLE 3: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   The word litter as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. Waste material as used in this
subsection shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin, including animal waste.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle, watercraft or animal in violation of this section, the operator
of such motor vehicle, watercraft or person who the animal is under his or her
control commits the offense of littering.
   (D)   A person who commits the offense of littering shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. A person convicted of the offense of littering first offense will
be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Second or subsequent
convictions a person will be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. No. 874, 6/4/13)
§ 5-302 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 39-619,
39-714.04 RS Neb.)
§ 5-303 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street at a rate of
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing
and except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed, the limits
specified in this paragraph or established as hereinafter authorized in this
paragraph shall be maximum lawful speeds, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any vehicle on any street within the City to drive such vehicle at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in alley;
      (2)   Twenty (20) miles per hour within the business district;
      (3)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour on "D" Street from U.S. Highway 6 to
Eighth Street from June 1 each year through November 1 of each year;
      (4)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when flashing yellow lights are
activated, twenty-five (25) miles per hour when not flashing on First Street
from "F" Street to Welch Park Road;
      (5)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when flashing yellow lights are
activated, twenty-five (25) miles per hour when not flashing on State Street
from Highway 6 to the south City limits;
      (6)   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour on all other streets;
      (7)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour on Fairway Drive from U.S. Highway 6 to
"D" Street from June 1 of each year through November 1 of each year;
      (8)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour on Eighth Street from "D" Street to "B"
Street from June 1 through November 1 of each year.
   (B)   Any person who violates any maximum speed limit established pursuant
to this section for any street within the City shall be deemed guilty of a
traffic infraction and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine as follows,
recoverable with costs:
      (1)   1 - 5 mph over authorized limit   $10.00
      (2)   Over 5 mph but not over 10 mph   $25.00
      (3)   Over 10 mph but not over 15 mph   $75.00
      (4)   Over 15 mph but not over 20 mph   $125.00
      (5)   Over 20 mph but not over 35 mph   $200.00
      (6)   Over 35 mph of authorized limit   $300.00
   (C)   The fines prescribed in this section shall be doubled if the violation
occurs within a maintenance, repair or construction zone. Signs shall be placed
within or in advance of maintenance, repair or construction zones which provide
information that the fines for exceeding the speed limit in such zones are
doubled.
   (D)   The fines prescribed in this section shall be doubled if the violation
occurs within a school crossing zone and shall be as follows, recoverable with
costs:
      (1)   1 - 5 mph over authorized limit   $20.00
      (2)   Over 5 mph but not over 10 mph   $50.00
      (3)   Over 10 mph but not over 15 mph   $150.00
      (4)   Over 15 mph but not over 20 mph   $250.00
      (5)   Over 20 mph but not over 35 mph   $400.00
      (6)   Over 35 mph of authorized limit   $600.00
   (E)   The Chief of Police, with the consent of the Governing Body shall
designate, by flashing yellow lights, reduced speed zones for such distances as
deemed proper by the Chief of Police on arterial streets adjacent to a public
or private elementary school or school crossings, provided that the Chief of
Police may exempt from the requirements of this section those potential reduced
speed zones which:
      (1)   Have fewer than four (4) lanes to cross and are not adjacent to a
school building; or
      (2)   Are crossed by more than fifty (50) students per day.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A)(1)d. and e., it
shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in a reduced speed zone as
herein designated at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour at such
time as the flashing yellow lights are in operation. Daily operating time of
said flashing lights shall be determined by the Chief of Police. (Ref. 39-662,
39-663 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 401, 4/6/76; 590, 12/3/91; 775, 8/2/05;
838, 12/7/10; 912, 5/2/17; 954, 10/6/20; 955, 12/1/20)
§ 5-303.01 SPEED LIMITS; U.S. HIGHWAY NO. 6 WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a rate of speed greater than
forty-five (45) miles per hour on U.S. Highway No. 6 from Welch Park Road to
"F" Street; or a rate of speed in excess of thirty-five (35) miles per hour on
U.S. Highway No. 6 from "F" Street to Park Avenue; or at a rate of speed in
excess of forty-five (45) miles per hour on U.S. Highway No. 6 from Park Avenue
to Grover Road. (Ord. No. 1991-580, 1/8/91)
§ 5-304 SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based upon the
visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated by the
use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such radio
microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as competent
evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal proceeding
when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the Municipality may offer in
evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic speed
measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor vehicle, the
Municipality shall prove the following:
   A.   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
   B.   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under such
conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
   C.   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement was
qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the device;
and
   D.   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the measuring
device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an arrest
being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working order.
   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant under
the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or displays
his or her badge of authority; Provided, that such officer shall have observed
the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio microwaves, or
other electronic device or had received a radio message from the officer who
observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves or
other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such a message,
such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the speed of the
motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a description of the vehicle
and the recorded speed. (Ref. 39-664 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 503, 10/4/
83)
§ 5-305 DRUNKEN DRIVING; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual physical
control of, any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or
of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or of any
drug, shall be deemed guilty of a crime, and upon conviction thereof, such
person shall be punished as provided by State law. For purposes of this section
the determination of whether an individual is under the influence of either
alcohol or drugs shall be as prescribed in the Statutes of Nebraska. (Ref. 39-
669.07 through 39-669.13 RS Neb.)
§ 5-306 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute. (Ref. 39-669.01, 39-669.02, 39-669.26 RS Neb.)
§ 5-307 RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving, and shall be punished as provided by
statute. (Ref. 39-669.03 through 39-669.06 RS Neb.)
§ 5-307.01 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this Municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving. (Ref. 39-669 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 453, 10/2/79)
§ 5-308 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving. (Ref. 39-
669.26 RS Neb.)
§ 5-309 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; Provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half (1½) lengths of the vehicle.
§ 5-310 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
§ 5-311 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street. (Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§ 5-312 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
§ 5-313 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this Municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a "muffler cut-out" on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; Provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-6,137, 60-2209 RS Neb.)
§ 5-314 TOYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates or riding in or by
means of any coaster toy vehicle, or similar device to go upon any roadway
except while necessarily crossing the street at a crosswalk or street
intersection.
§ 5-315 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies. (Ref. 60-435 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 395, 12/16/75)
§ 5-316 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer. (Ref. 39-6,192 RS Neb.)
§ 5-317 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
§ 5-318 ANIMALS AND BICYCLES; APPLICABILITY.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon
a roadway, and every person driving any animal, shall be subject to the
provisions of this Chapter applicable to the operator of any vehicle, except
those provisions with reference to the equipment of vehicles and those which by
their very nature can have no application.
§ 5-319 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM.
   The Police Commissioner shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic
citations containing notice to appear which shall be issued in books with
citations in quadruplicate.
   The Police Commissioner shall be responsible for the issuance of such books,
and shall maintain a record of every such book, and each citation number
therein issued to the Municipal Police. The Commissioner shall require and
retain a receipt for every book so issued.
§ 5-320 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   The Municipal Police upon issuing a copy of the traffic citation to an
alleged violator of any provision of this Chapter shall deposit a copy of the
traffic citation with the Municipal Attorney, unless the citation is just a
warning.
   It shall be unlawful for the Municipal Police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
   The Police Commissioner shall require the return of all copies of every
traffic citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made,
and not issued to an alleged violator.
§ 5-321 TRAFFIC CITATION; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels, or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 5-322 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up or destroy a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the Municipal Police, or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
§ 5-323 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in such a
manner as to cause unnecessary noise, spinning or squealing of tires, skids,
slides, abrupt turns or sways, or in any other manner as to indicate a want of
ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use under
like circumstances. (Ord. No. 452, 10/2/79)
§ 5-324 ENGINE AND/OR EXHAUST BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to use or operate engine brakes and/or exhaust brakes
installed on any motor vehicle, within the City, or within a one (1) mile
radius of said City. Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
fined in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. No. 839, 3/1/11)
ARTICLE 4: BICYCLES, MINIBIKES AND MOPEDS
§ 5-401 BICYCLE; LICENSE.
   Anyone wishing to operate a bicycle within the corporate limits shall make
an application to the Municipal Police on, or before, the first (1st) day of
May of each year. A license shall then be issued by the Municipal Police upon
the payment of a fee set by resolution of the Governing Body to the Police
Chief. Said License shall then be attached to the frame of the bicycle in a
substantial manner. The removal of such tag, except by the proper authorities,
shall be unlawful. The registration may be transferred whenever the ownership
of the bicycle is transferred, but a fee of twenty-five ($.25) cents shall be
charged for each such transfer thereof. No registration shall be transferred if
the metal tag has been removed from the bicycle. Replacement of lost or
destroyed tags shall be twenty-five ($.25) cents each. All registration fees
under this Article shall be paid into the General Fund. (Ref. 39-690, 39-697(h)
RS Neb.)
§ 5-402 BICYCLE; LICENSE TAGS.
   The Chief of Police shall provide each year metallic tags and seals, having
registered numbers stamped thereon in numerical order beginning with number one
(1), and indicating the year for which the same is issued and the words
"Milford-Bicycle Registration" suitable for attachment upon the frame of each
bicycle. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to attach one (1) of such
metallic tags to the frame of each bicycle upon the payment of the registration
fee and such tags shall at all times remain as attached during the existence of
such registration. He shall also keep a record of the date of issue of each
registration, to whom made, the number thereof, and the make and serial number
of the bicycle.
§ 5-403 BICYCLE; OPERATION.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway
of this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from one
half (1/2) hour after sunset and one half (1/2) hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than five hundred (500) feet indicating the approach or presence
of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or
without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five hundred
(500) feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a clear, white
light.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting. (Ref. 39-688, 39-690, 39-691 RS Neb.)
§ 5-404 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling upon any
bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or his bicycle, or
roller skates, to such vehicle so driven and operated by him. (Ref. 39-689 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-405 MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any minibike or similar two-, three-, or four-wheeled
miniature vehicle (except golf carts as provided in sections
5-412 and
5-413), whose visibility, power, and equipment are inadequate for mixing with
normal vehicular traffic upon the streets and highways to be operated on any
such street or highway. For purposes of this section, "minibike" shall mean a
two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than
fourteen inches (14") or an engine rated capacity of less than forty-five (45)
cubic centimeters displacement or a seat height less than twenty-five inches
(25") from the ground or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed
by the manufacturer for off-road use only. Except as otherwise permitted, it
shall be unlawful to operate any minibike in any park or other public area
owned or operated by the Municipality. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 609, 4/6/93)
§ 5-406 MOPEDS; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this Article, moped shall mean a bicycle with fully
operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission, and
a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty (50cc) cubic centimeters,
which produces no more than two (2) brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than thirty miles
per hour (30 m.p.h.) on level ground. Mopeds, their owners, and their
operators, shall be subject to Chapter 60,
Article 4, R.R.S. of Nebraska, 1943, and amendments thereto, but shall be
exempt from the requirements of Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 5, and 17, R.R.S. of
Nebraska, 1943 and amendments thereto. (Ref. 39-6,196 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 457,
10/2/79)
§ 5-407 MOPEDS; OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys, or public highways
of the Municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operator's
license or a valid school or learner's permit. (Ref. 39-6,197 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 457, 10/2/79)
§ 5-408 MOPEDS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   (1)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and sections 39-601 to 39-6,122
R.R.S. of Nebraska, 1943, and amendments thereto, except for those provisions
of such sections which by their nature can have no application. Such
regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall be operated
upon any street, alley, or public highway within the Municipality or upon any
path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the use of
mopeds. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of
twenty-five miles per hour (25 m.p.h.), no person shall operate any moped at a
speed in excess of thirty miles per hour (30 m.p.h.). (Ref. 39-6,198 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 457, 10/2/79)
   (2)   Mopeds, their owners and their operators shall be subject to the Motor
Vehicle Operator's License Act, but shall be exempt from the requirements of
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, the Motor Vehicle Registration Act,
and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act. (Ref. 60-6,309 RS Neb.)
§ 5-409 MOPEDS; OPERATION.
   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the manufacturer to
carry more than one (1) person.
   Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat, facing
forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any package,
bundle, or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride,
in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of the moped or
the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall attach him or
her self or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway. (Ref. 39-6,199 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 457, 10/2/79)
§ 5-410 MOPEDS; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street or
highway with an authorized speed limit of forty-five miles per hour (45 m.p.h.)
or less and no vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any
moped of the full use of such lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds or
motorcycles operated two (2) abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate
a moped between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
Mopeds shall not be operated more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Any
person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed limit of more
than forty-five miles per hour (45 m.p.h.) shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, and shall not ride more than single file. (Ref.
39-6,200 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 457, 10/2/79)
§ 5-411 MOPEDS; EQUIPMENT.
   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for
such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than
fifteen inches (15") above the mounting point of the handlebars. (Ref. 39-6,203
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 457, 10/2/79)
§ 5-412 GOLF CARTS; OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart upon any public street, alley or
right-of-way, EXCEPT under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Operation shall be between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
   (B)   Operator shall possess a valid Class O operator’s license as defined
under applicable state law.
   (C)   Golf cart shall be operated as near to the right side of the roadway
as possible, and if two (2) or more are traveling together they shall be in
single file. Golf carts are to be driven in the street and not on the
sidewalks.
   (D)   Golf cart must be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends to
a height of not less than six (6) feet above the ground, attached to the rear
of the cart. The flag shall be triangular in shape, not less than thirty (30)
square inches in size and shall be "Day-glow" in color. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the requirements set forth in this division (D) shall not apply if
the golf cart is adequately equipped with modern headlights and taillights
located on the front and rear of the golf cart, as applicable.
   (E)   No golf cart shall travel upon or cross Highway #6 within the
corporate limits of the City, EXCEPT that golf carts shall be permitted to
cross Highway #6 at the intersection of D Street and Highway #6, or at the
Highway #6 crossing at F Street and Fairway Drive.
   (F)   Operators shall obey traffic regulations which govern the movement of
vehicles on a public roadway, and shall yield right-of-way to all motor
vehicles.
   (G)   While in motion on a public roadway or on any Municipal park property,
all occupants of the golf cart shall remain seated. The maximum number of
occupants each cart may transport shall be equal in number to the number of
factory designed seats installed on the cart.
(Ord. No. 967, 4/4/23)
§ 5-413 GOLF CARTS; PERMIT.
   No golf cart shall be operated upon the public streets without first
obtaining a golf cart permit from the City Clerk's office, upon payment of an
annual permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). The Clerk shall issue a golf cart
tag which shall be affixed to the right rear of the golf cart. Such golf cart
permit shall be valid for the remainder of the year. (Ord. No. 609, 4/6/93)
(Amended by Ord. No. 947, 6/2/20)
Cross reference:
   Fee Schedule, see §
1-820
§ 5-414 GOLF CARTS; PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provision of Article 5, Chapter 4, sections
5-412 through
5-414 shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus court
costs, for a first offense. For any subsequent violation of these sections, in
addition to the fine and costs, the City reserves the right to rescind the
permit. (Ord. No. 609, 4/6/93) (Amended by Ord. No. 947, 6/2/20)
§ 5-415 ALL TERRAIN AND UTILITY TYPE VEHICLES.
   (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV).  Any motorized off-highway vehicle which: (a)
is fifty (50) inches or less in width; (b) has a dry weight of nine hundred
(900) pounds or less; (c) travels on four (4) or more low-pressure tires; (d)
is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is specifically
designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one (1) passenger;
(e) has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and (f) has
handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
      STREET OR HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ref. 60-624, 60-6, 355 RS Neb.)
      UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE (UTV).  Any motorized off-highway vehicle which (a)
is not less than forty-eight (48) inches nor more than seventy-four (74) inches
in width; (b) is not more than one hundred thirty-five (135) inches, including
the bumper in length; (c) has a dry weight of not less nine hundred (900)
pounds nor more than two thousand (2,000) pounds; (d) travels on four (4) or
more low pressure tires; and (e) is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or
bucket type seating designed for at least two (2) people to sit side by side.
Golf carts, riding lawn mowers, and motorized wheel chairs are not utility type
vehicles as defined in this article.
   (2)   Operation.
      (a)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility type vehicle may be operated on
streets within the corporate limits of the City only if the operator and the
vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
      (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or
utility type vehicle as authorized in subsection (b) of this section, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five (5) feet
above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than thirty (30) square
inches and shall be day-glow in color.
      (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual
physical control of any all-terrain or utility type vehicle upon the traveled
portion of any public roadway within the corporate limits of the city except as
specifically authorized and permitted under the terms of this article.
      (d)   Any person operating an all-terrain or utility type vehicle as
authorized in subsection (b) of this section shall have:
         1.   A valid class O operator's license and be twenty-one (21) years
of age or older.
         2.   Have a permit issued by the City Clerk permitting operation
within the corporate limits of the City;
         3.   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or
utility type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility type
vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or
utility type vehicle shall maintain proof of such insurance with the vehicle
and shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting
the same; and
         4.   The operator and passenger of utility-type vehicle must wear
safety restraint system.
         5.   All-terrain and utility type vehicles may be operated without
complying with subsections (a) and (b) of this section on streets and highways
in parades which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any
department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the State.
         6.   Except as provided in this subsection, a utility type vehicle
shall not be operated within the corporate limits on U.S. Highway 6 (5th St.)
between F Street / Fairway Drive and 1st Street.
         7.   An all-terrain or utility type vehicle shall not be operated on
any controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked
traffic lanes shall not be permitted. Subsections 1. through 5. and 7. of this
section authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain or utility type
vehicle only on a street or highway other than a controlled-access highway with
more than two (2) marked traffic lanes.
         8.   Subject to subsection 6. of this section, the crossing of a
street or highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain or utility type vehicle
without complying with subsections 1. and 6. of this section only if:
            a.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
            b.   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
            c.   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
            d.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
            e.   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when
the crossing is made.
            f.   That operator will allow no more than one (1) passenger who
must be seated in the area specifically designed by the manufacturer for a
passenger. No passenger may be less than seven (7) years of age.
         9.   In order to obtain a permit to operate an all-terrain or utility
type vehicle within the corporate limits of the City, an applicant must make an
annual application at the office of the City Clerk and provide the following
information:
            a.   Name and address of the applicant;
            b.   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain or utility type vehicle
(s) to be operated within the City by the applicant;
            c.   Be twenty-one (21) years of age or older;
            d.   Valid class O operator's license issued by the State of
Nebraska; and
            e.   Year, make, model, color, engine size, and vehicle
identification number (VIN) of the all-terrain vehicle(s) (ATV's) or utility
type vehicle(s) (UTV's) to be operated within the City by the applicant.
            f.   The issued permit shall be prominently displayed and plainly
visible from the rear of the operator's all-terrain or utility type vehicle.
All letters, numbers, printing, writing and other identification marks upon
such permits shall be kept clear and distinct and free from grease, dust, or
other blurring matter, so that they shall be plainly visible at all times
during daylight and under artificial light in the nighttime.
            g.   No person shall attach to or display on such ATV/UTV any:
               (1)   Permit or registration certificate other than as assigned
to it for the current registration period;
               (2)   Fictitious or altered permit or registration certificate;
               (3)   Permit or registration certificate that has been cancelled
by the City of Milford; or
               (4)   Permits lacking current validation decals.
            h.   In addition, the all-terrain or utility type vehicle must meet
the following requirements: pass inspection by a personnel designated by the
City to insure that the vehicle:
               (1)   At least one (1) working headlight and taillight;
               (2)   A working brake light;
               (3)   At least one (1) rearview mirror;
               (4)   Working safety restraint system on utility type vehicles;
               (5)   UTV's shall be equipped with a manufacturer's original
equipment roll bar designed and manufactured to prevent injuries in the event
of a roll over;
               (6)   A bicycle safety flag in compliance with section (2)(b) of
this article;
               (7)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
               (8)   A muffler system in good working condition properly
attached to the all-terrain or utility type vehicle which reduces the noise of
operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. The muffler
shall not be audible for a distance of more than five hundred (500) feet. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe, or similar device on
an all-terrain vehicle or utility type vehicle; and
               (9)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Ref. 60-6, 356(7) RS Neb.)
   (3)   All-terrain vehicles; accident report. If an accident results in the
death of any person or, in the injury of any person which requires treatment by
a physician, the operator of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in § 60-505 RS
Neb. (Ref. 60-6, 361 RS Neb.)
   (4)   Revocation of operation privilege. Violations of these provisions
shall be punishable as set forth in Chapter 12 of the Milford City Code. In
addition, any person receiving three (3) or more citations within a twelve (12)
month period shall, upon conviction of the third or subsequent offense, have
his or her privilege to operate an all-terrain or utility type vehicle within
the City limits revoked for a period of one (1) year from the date of
conviction. Persons operating an ATV/UTV while their privileges are revoked are
subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first offense
and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for subsequent offenses.
   (5)   Upon compliance with subsections (2)(a) and (b) herein, and payment of
an application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), (which fee may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the City Council), permits to operate a ATV/UTV
shall be valid from the date of issuance until midnight on the 31st day of
March of the following year for which the permit is issued.
   (6)   Penalty. Any person who violates this article shall be punished as
provided in Chapter 12 of the Municipal Code. (Ord. No, 879, 3/4/14; 879, as
amended, 1/5/16)
Cross reference:
   Fee Schedule, see §
1-820
ARTICLE 5: PARKING
§ 5-501 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within twelve (12) inches of the curb,
except where the Governing Body designates that vehicles shall be parked at an
angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb. Where stalls are
designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such
stalls. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-502 PARKING; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-503 PARKING; AREAS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-504 PARKING; STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   Except where necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or at the direction of a police officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (a)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         1.   On a sidewalk;
         2.   On a crosswalk;
         3.   Within an intersection;
         4.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         5.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking of such vehicle would obstruct traffic;
         6.   Upon any bridge;
         7.   On any railroad track, or
         8.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (b)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading of merchandise or passengers:
         1.   In front of an alley, public or private driveway;
         2.   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         3.   Within thirty (30) feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield
sign, or other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         4.   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing; or
         5.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (2)   No person shall move any vehicle, whether lawfully or not lawfully
under his or her control, into any area prohibited under section one hereof, or
away from a curb such a distance as shall be unlawful. (Amended by Ord. No.
681, 2/3/98)
§ 5-505 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   No vehicle over ten (10) tons in weight shall operate, load or unload upon
any street in the Municipality except the following:
   A Street and Walnut Street from First Street to Park Avenue
   Elm Street from First Street to Park Avenue
   First Street
   Park Avenue from Walnut to U.S. Highway 6
   B Street from First Street to U.S. Highway 6
   State Street south of U.S. Highway 6
   F Street from Sixth Street to Fifth Street
   Occasional deliveries to residences
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 403, 6/1/76; 448, 5/1/79)
§ 5-506 PARKING; FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within fifteen (15') feet in either direction of
any fire hydrant nor within twenty (20') feet of the driveway entrance to any
fire station. The curb space within such area of fifteen (15') feet in either
direction of such fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 5-507 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive. (Ref. 39-697
RS Neb.)
§ 5-508 PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to cause the curb space to
be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the Municipality through its proper officers, at the direction
of the Governing Body. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-509 PARKING; DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this Municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this Municipality, excepting
in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-510 PARKING; TIME LIMIT.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this Article.
(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-511 PARKING; MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over forty-eight (48)
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-512 PARKING; SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE; EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   After a snowfall of three inches (3") has occurred within a twenty-four (24)
hour period a snow emergency shall exist within the Municipality. Except on
snow emergency routes, commencing four (4) hours after commencement of a snow
emergency all vehicles shall be parked on the even numbered side of the street
on even numbered days and the odd numbered side of the street on odd numbered
days, and this parking restriction shall remain in effect until the snow has
stopped and the snow has been removed from the street.
   On any street that has been designated as an emergency snow route, parking
on both sides of the street shall be prohibited immediately upon the
commencement of a snow emergency and shall remain in effect until the snow has
stopped and the snow has been removed from the street. The following street is
hereby declared to be an emergency snow route: C Street between First Street
and 5th Street. The snow emergency routes may be enlarged or changed by
Resolution of the Governing Body.
   The Municipal Police may order any street or alley, or portion thereof,
vacated for weather emergencies and/or street maintenance. Notice shall be
given by personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such
street or alley, or by appropriate signs along such street or alley posted at
least four (4) hours prior to the time that the vacation order is to be
effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of this section or failing
to remove a vehicle from the area to be vacated, shall be subject to the
penalties provided in this Chapter, and such vehicle may be removed and parked,
under the supervision of the Municipal Police to a nearby public storage lot,
garage or other location until the owner or other person lawfully entitled to
the possession of such vehicle shall have paid the reasonable cost of such
removal and storage. Any such towing or storage fee shall become a security
interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 411, 12/21/76; 870, 3/5/13)
§ 5-513 PARKING; VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Article regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this Article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. (Ref. 39-608 RS Neb.)
§ 5-514 PARKING; VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   There is hereby created the Violations Bureau within the powers and duties
of the office of Municipal Clerk. A copy of each Municipal citation issued for
non-moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk,
whose duty it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and
accurate records of all such fines paid. Fines shall be payable in person or by
mail to the office of the Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of ten
dollars ($10.00) for each violation if paid within five (5) days from the date
of issuance. Should any fine not be paid within the five (5)-day period the
fine amount due will increase to fifteen dollars ($15.00). If the fifteen
dollar ($15.00) fine is not paid within the next fifteen (15) days the Clerk
shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the citation was issued a
written notice informing them of the violation and warning that they will be
held responsible for the fine. This notice will also inform the owner of the
vehicle that if the fifteen dollar ($15.00) fine is not paid within fifteen
(15) days the Clerk will forward the matter to the Chief of Police requesting
that a complaint and warrant be issued. All money collected by the Municipal
Clerk under this section shall be transferred to the Milford Public School
District at the end of each month. (Ref. 18-1729 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
402, 4/20/76; 596, 6/2/92; 669, 8/5/97868, 12/4/12)
§ 5-515 PARKING; RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
   The Governing Body and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of disabled
persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to such
individuals pursuant to section 60-3,113 RS Neb., such other handicapped
persons, as certified by the Governing Body, whose vehicles display the
identification as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such
other motor vehicles, as certified by the Governing Body, which display such
identification. All such permits shall be displayed in the operator's area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle's dashboard or its equivalent. Whenever
the Governing Body so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a
sign which is in conformance with the nineteenth (19th) edition of the Federal
Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways. In addition to such sign the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from physically handicapped
persons or their parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which
will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the
purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by
this section. For the purpose of this section, physically handicapped persons
shall mean visually handicapped persons and those permanently physically
handicapped persons who have definite walking problems to such an extent that
walking is impractical, impossible, extremely painful, or generally detrimental
to one's health, including those persons who have respiratory problems which
incapacitate their walking, and disabled persons as defined in section 60-
311.14 RS Neb. Visually handicapped persons shall mean those persons using the
white cane or guide dog. Persons applying for a permit shall complete such
forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk by the Department of Motor
Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Municipal Clerk that
he or she is handicapped. The Municipal Clerk may require medical certificates
and proof of a handicapped condition. Such application shall be forwarded to
the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically handicapped persons to
park in those spaces provided for by this section, if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of physically handicapped person. Such parking
permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is
being used for the transportation of physically handicapped persons. Persons
applying for permits pursuant to this section, shall apply for a permit for
each motor vehicle used for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons and shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk by
the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the Clerk that each
such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically
handicapped persons. Such applications shall be forwarded to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.
   All permits authorized under this section shall be issued for a period
ending January One (1) of the fourth (4th) year following the date of issuance.
A permit fee of three dollars ($3.00) shall be charged for each permit, two
dollars and fifty cents of ($2.50) which shall be retained by the Municipal
Clerk and fifty cents (50¢) which shall be forwarded to the Department of Motor
Vehicles.
   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other person, for
any other motor vehicle, or for any other purpose shall be cause for suspension
of such permit for a period of six (6) months. At the expiration of such
period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
(Ref. 18-1736 through 18-1742 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 464, 11/20/79;
518, 10/2/84; 567, 12/5/89; 613 & 614, 5/4/93)
§ 5-515.01 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMIT CONTENTS, DUPLICATE
PERMITS.
   The permit to be issued by the Municipal Clerk shall be a card four inches
(4") by four inches (4") in size constructed so that it may be easily and
conspicuously displayed from a vehicle's rearview mirror and on which is
prominently displayed the date of expiration, the internationally accepted
wheelchair symbol, which symbol is a representation of a person seated in a
wheelchair surrounded by a boarder six (6) units wide by seven (7) units high,
and an identifying number on the front of the card. The color of the permit
issued to handicapped or disabled persons or for the transportation of such
persons shall be white on blue. The permit issued to temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or for the transportation of such persons shall be a special
distinguishing color as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles. The
name, address, phone number, date of birth, and age of the handicapped or
disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom issued shall
appear on the reverse side. The name, address, and phone number of the party to
whom issued and the license plate number of the motor vehicle for which the
permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side of the permit if such permit
is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if any
valid parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
if such permit has been suspended pursuant to section
5-515.
   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Municipal Clerk without cost if
the original permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall
be issued in the same manner as the original permit and shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued. (Ref. 18-1739
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 614, 5/4/93)
§ 5-515.02 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED
VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking facility,
after notifying the police or sheriff's department, and the Municipality
providing onstreet parking or owning, operating, or providing an offstreet
parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicles not displaying proper identification or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this Article if there is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously state the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   Anyone parking in any onstreet parking space which has been designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, or
in any so exclusively designated parking space in any offstreet parking
facility, without properly displaying the proper identification or when the
handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or permit
is issued is not being transported shall be guilty of a traffic infraction as
defined in section 39-602, RS Neb., and shall be subject to the penalties and
procedures set forth in section 39-6,112, RS Neb. If the identity of the person
who parked the vehicle in violation of the section cannot be readily
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty and
subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the owner or
person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the Municipality of a
violation of this section prior to taking any action pursuant to this section.
(Ref. 18-1737 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 613, 5/4/93)
§ 5-515.03 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF SPACES.
   The following parking spaces are hereby designated for handicapped persons,
as provided in sections
5-503 and
5-515 of this Code and appropriate signs shall be erected at such locations.
   (1)   First parking space south of First Street on the west side of "B"
Street.
   (2)   First one and one half (1½) parking spaces east of the Milford Senior
Center Drive on the south side of First Street.
   (3)   First parking space east of "B" Street, on the north side of First
Street.
   (4)   First parking space east of "B" Street, on the south side of First
Street.
   (5)   First parking space south of Second Street, on the east side of "C"
Street.
   (6)   First parking space east of "C" Street, on the south side of Second
Street.
   (7)   The second one and one-half (1½) parking spaces located in the
Swimming Pool Parking Lot, south of Fairway Drive, along the east curb.
   (8)   Three (3) parking stalls in the 600 block of State Street, on the west
side of State Street.
   (9)   Three (3) parking stalls in the 200 block of South “F” Street, on the
west side of 218 South “F” Street.
(Ord. No. 704, 6/6/00) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 708, 10/3/00; 764, 6/7/05; 888, 1/
6/15)
§ 5-516 PARKING; REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any Police Officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of the Article, such individual may
remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of
such street or alley or from such street or alley.
    The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles. (Ref. 39-671, 39-697 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1988-561, 10/4/88)
§ 5-517 PARKING; LOADING OR UNLOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stop, park or stand
such vehicle in any designated loading or unloading zone for a period of time
longer than is necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of
merchandise or materials, and in no event shall the operator of a vehicle into
of from which merchandise or material is being loaded or unloaded, stop, park
or stand such vehicle in any loading zone for a period longer than thirty (30)
minutes, nor shall the operator of any vehicle which is loading or unloading
passengers, stop, park or stand such vehicle in any loading zone for a period
of time longer than five (5) minutes. Designated loading or unloading zones
will be plainly marked with signs which are in conformity with the 1988 edition
of the Federal Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. No. 721, 1/7/02)
§ 5-518 PARKING; TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for a truck, truck tractor, or semitrailer, except
pickup trucks of three-quarter (3/4) ton or less, to park or stop for any
period of time on any street within a residential district except for the
purpose of loading or unloading the cargo thereof, or performing a service in
the area in the ordinary course of business, unless otherwise posted, except in
the following designated areas:
      (1)   Park Avenue, Walnut Avenue to Elm Avenue;
      (2)   "A" Street between First Street and Park Avenue;
      (3)   At such other locations designated by resolution of the Governing
Body.
Provided, such prohibited vehicles may park for purposes of loading or
unloading after obtaining permission from the Municipal Police. Vehicles may
stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed what is reasonably necessary
to load or unload, but in no case longer than fifteen (15) minutes during the
hours between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., unless the operator of such truck has
obtained permission from the Municipal Police to stop for a longer period of
time. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of length,
to park said vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of
a private driveway, or on a sidewalk. The Governing Body by resolution may
designate other truck- parking areas, and if such parking areas are provided,
truck operators are to use such parking areas for parking purposes. (Ref. 60-
680 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 720, 12/4/01) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 752, 2/3/04; 940, 7/
2/19)
§ 5-519 PARKING; DRIVEWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any residential property
within the City, or their guests or invitees, to park any motor vehicle on said
residential property in a location other than a paved, graveled, or rocked
driveway located on said residential property. It shall not be a violation of
this section if the motor vehicle is parked in a location other than a paved,
graveled, or rocked driveway but is in the process of being washed or said
vehicle is in the process of being loaded or unloaded or is parked in the
backyard of the property. (Ord. No. 776, 2/7/06)
§ 5-520 PARKING; TRAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer (whether attached or
unattached to any other vehicle) on any public street within the City for any
period longer than is reasonably necessary to load or unload the contents of
said trailer. The provisions of this section shall not deny or make an offense
for the parking of any vehicle or trailer while involved in the legitimate
delivery or pickup of merchandise, goods, services or passengers to and from
necessary locations for commercial purposes. However, this section does not
authorize the parking of a vehicle or trailer overnight nor does this section
apply to major recreational equipment which is defined and regulated in section
5-521. (Ord. No. 941, 7/2/19)
§ 5-521 PARKING; BOATS AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person who owns or controls a boat or travel trailer to park or leave standing
said boat or travel trailer on any public street or parked on private property
in a manner so as to encroach upon any public street or public right-of-way,
including a sidewalk. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if:
      (1)   The owner or operator of the boat or travel trailer is in the
actual course and scope of loading or unloading goods or equipment; or
      (2)   The boat or travel trailer is otherwise legally parked or left
standing for twenty-four (24) hours or less due to a mechanical defect which
makes it unsafe to move.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRAVEL TRAILER shall mean a trailer
equipped for use as a temporary dwelling. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 942,
7/2/19)
ARTICLE 6: PENAL PROVISION
§ 5-601 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
      Article
         
1.   DOGS AND CATS
         
2.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
         
3.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
         
4.   DISORDERLY HOUSES
         
5.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: DOGS AND CATS
§ 6-101 DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE; COLLECTION OF MUNICIPAL AND STATE FEES.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog or cat over the age of four
(4) months within the Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after
acquisition of said dog or cat, or upon said dog or cat attaining the age of
four (4) months, whichever occurs last, acquire a license for each such dog or
cat from the Municipality. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon
the payment of a license tax of eight dollars ($8.00) for each male dog or cat
and spayed female dog or cat and thirteen dollars ($13.00) for each unspayed
female dog or cat. Said license shall not be transferable and no refund will be
allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog or
cat. The owner shall state at the time the license is purchased, the name and
address of the owner, and the breed, color and sex of each dog or cat owned or
kept by such owner. A certificate that the dog or cat has had a rabies shot
effective for the licensing year shall be presented when the license is
purchased and no license shall be issued until the certificate is shown. Said
license shall be renewed for the ensuing year prior to the first day of March
of each year, and licenses purchased during the license year shall not be pro-
rated. All dog and cat licenses which are current at the time of adoption of
this section or which are issued after the adoption of this section, shall
expire on February 28, 2010, and shall be renewed annually prior to March 1,
2010 and each anniversary thereof. In addition to the municipal license fees
imposed herein on the owner or harborer of any cat(s) or dog(s), the Municipal
Clerk shall also collect from said licensee, an additional fee of one dollar
twenty five cents ($1.25) for each such license on behalf of the State of
Nebraska. The City Clerk or her designee shall collect said license fee and
shall act as agent for the State of Nebraska in the collection thereof. From
each one dollar twenty five cents fee ($1.25) collected, the City shall retain
three cents ($.03) and shall remit the a balance to the State Treasurer for
credit to the Commercial Dog and Cat Operator Inspection Program Cash Fund, to
be credited to the Municipality's General Fund. The remittance to the State
Treasurer shall be made at least annually at the conclusion of the licensing
jurisdiction's fiscal year, or such other time as shall be designated by the
State of Nebraska. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this Article
which are not related to dangerous dogs, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to the violations penalty set
forth in § 12-101 of the Municipal Code.
(Ref. 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 595, 6/2/92; 726,
7/2/02; 824, 6/2/09; 836, 10/5/10; 871, 3/5/13; 902, 11/3/15; 925, 12/5/17)
Cross reference:
   Fee Schedule, see §
1-820
§ 6-102 DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog or cat a metallic license tag for each so licensed. The metallic
tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness of all dogs or cats so
licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said animal until
one (1) minute after midnight on the anniversary date of the purchase of said
license. In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a new tag for the balance of the year for which the
license tax has been paid. All license fees and collections shall be
immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal
Clerk to obtain and issue license tags of a suitable design. The Municipal
Clerk shall keep an accurate file of all licenses issued in accordance with
this Article. The file shall contain the name and address of each owner, a
complete description of the animal, the number on the license tag, and the date
it was issued. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 595, 6/2/92)
§ 6-103 DOGS AND CATS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such animal to wear any license, metallic tag or other
Municipal identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs or
cats, nor shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license
an unspayed female dog or cat with a license prescribed for a male or spayed
female animal. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS Neb.)
§ 6-104 DOGS AND CATS; OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog or cat to be for ten (10) days
or more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be
fed, shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such animal and shall be deemed
to be liable for all penalties herein prescribed. (Ref. 54-606, 71-4401 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-105 DOGS AND CATS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog
or cat to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than
thirty (30) days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such
proclamation, or until such danger is passed. The dogs or cats may be harbored
by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise
wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be
the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog or cat to confine
the same as herein provided. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-106 DOGS AND CATS; UNLICENSED.
   All dogs and cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds
of the Municipality without a collar or harness with the metal tag affixed as
aforesaid, are hereby declared a public nuisance. Unlicensed dogs and cats
found running at large shall be impounded in the Municipal Dog Shelter, or the
place designated by the Governing Body as such, by the Municipal Police. (Ref.
17-526, 71-4408 RS Neb.)
§ 6-107 DOGS AND CATS; UNCOLLARED.
   All dogs and cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds
of the Municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Uncollared dogs and cats found running at large shall be killed or
impounded in the Municipal Dog Shelter by the Municipal Police. (Ref. 54-605 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-108 DOGS AND CATS; RUNNING AT LARGE; MINIMUM PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow his or her dog or cat to run at
large within the municipality. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to
cause any dog or cat running at large within the Municipality to be taken up
and impounded. “Running at Large” shall mean any dog or cat found off the
premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner or a responsible
person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means
of physical restraint. Then penalty for violation of this section shall be a
minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) on condition that the dog or cat is
currently licensed, or is licensed within five (5) days of the offense. In the
event the dog or cat is unlicensed and the owner fails to procure a license for
said dog or cat within five (5) days of the offense, then the minimum fine
hereunder shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The maximum fine shall be
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. No. 823, 4/7/09)
§ 6-109 DOGS AND CATS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Municipal Police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved. (Ref. 54-605 RS Neb.)
§ 6-110 DOGS AND CATS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him, or under his charge or control, to injure or destroy any real or
personal property of any description belonging to another person. The owner or
possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction,
may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount equal to the
value of the damage so sustained. (Ref. 54-601, 54-602 RS Neb.)
§ 6-111 DOGS AND CATS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-112 ANIMALS; IMPOUNDING; IMPOUNDMENT FEES; AND REQUIREMENTS FOR RELEASE OF
IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police and/or person designated
as the Animal Control Officer to capture, secure, remove, and impound in a
humane manner, any animal found to be in violation of any of the provisions of
this Article, The animals shall be impounded at the Municipal Animal Shelter
where they shall be treated in a humane manner. They shall be provided with a
sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded animal shall
be kept and maintained at the shelter for a period of time not to exceed
seventy-two (72) hours after a written public notice of the impoundment shall
include breed, sex, and coloring information, as well as a description of any
other significant identifying marks.
   (2)   This written notice shall be posted at the office of the Municipal
Clerk within twenty-four (24) hours after the impoundment as a public
notification of the action. Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the
period of impoundment by paying the impoundment fee of fifty dollars ($50.00),
and in addition to said impoundment fee, a boarding fee of five dollars ($5.00)
per day or any portion thereof for boarding. The owner shall be required to
license the animal, prior to its release, if it does not already have a current
license, Also the owner must show proof, within seventy-two (72) hours of
release, that the animal has received a current rabies vaccination. The
Municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed animal impounded at
the Animal Shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice.
   (3)   If an animal is not claimed by the end of the required seventy-two
(72) hour period after the public notice has been posted, the City may dispose
of the animal in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to same; provided, that if, in the judgment of the Chief of Police a
suitable home can be found for any such animal, the said animal shall be turned
over to that person. The new owner shall be required to pay an adoption fee
which is made up of the licensing tax and an amount equal to any unpaid impound
fee before obtaining the animal, unless waived by the Chief of Police, Animals
not claimed by their owners, or those for which a suitable home cannot be
found, will be destroyed and buried in a summary and humane manner, All such
animals will be disposed of in compliance with rules provided by the Municipal
Board of Health and the Department of Environmental control.(Ref. 17-121, 17-
548, 71-4408, 81-1502, 81-1516 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 434, 11/15/77;
595, 6/2/92; 727, 7/2/02; 822, 4/7/09)
§ 6-113 DOGS AND CATS; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The Animal Shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping, and destruction of dogs and cats. The said shelter shall
be sanitary, ventilated, and lighted. (Ref. 17-548 RS Neb.)
§ 6-114 DOGS AND CATS; RABIES SUSPECTED.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal which is owned by a person and has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be seized by the rabies
control authority for a period of not less than ten (10) days if:
         (a)   The animal is suspected of having rabies, regardless of the
species and whether or not the animal has been vaccinated;
         (b)   The animal is not vaccinated and is a dog, cat, or another
animal of a species determined by the Department to be a rabid species; or
         (c)   The animal is of a species which has been determined by the
department to be a rabid species not amenable to rabies protection by
immunization, whether or not the animal has been vaccinated.
      (2)   If, after observation and examination by a veterinarian, at the end
of the ten (10)-day period the animal shows no clinical signs of rabies, the
animal may be released to its owner.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whenever
any person has been bitten or has an abrasion of the skin caused by an animal
owned by another person, which animal has been vaccinated in accordance with
state law, or if such an injury to a person is caused by an owned dog, cat, or
other animal determined by the department to be a rabid species amenable to
rabies protection by immunization which has been vaccinated, the animal shall
be confined by the owner or other responsible person as required by the rabies
control authority for a period of at least ten (10) days and shall be observed
and examined by a veterinarian at the end of the ten (10)-day period. If no
clinical signs of rabies are found by the veterinarian, the animal may be
released from confinement.
      (2)   A vaccinated animal owned by a law enforcement or governmental
military agency which bites or causes an abrasion of the skin of any person
during training or the performance of the animal's duties may be confined as
provided in division (B)(1) of this section. The agency shall maintain
ownership of and shall control and supervise the actions of the animal for a
period of fifteen (15) days following the injury. If during such period the
death of the animal occurs for any reason, a veterinarian shall within twenty-
four (24) hours of the death examine the tissues of the animal for clinical
signs of rabies.
   (C)   Any dog, cat, or other animal of a rabid species which has bitten a
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of a person and which is unowned or
the ownership of which cannot be determined within seventy-two (72) hours of
the time of the bite or abrasion shall be immediately subject to any tests
which the department believes are necessary to determine whether the animal is
afflicted with rabies. The seventy-two (72)-hour period shall include holidays
and weekends and shall not be extended for any reason. The tests required by
this subsection may include tests which require the animal to be destroyed.
(Ord. No. 800, 3/4/08)
§ 6-115 DOGS AND CATS; CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any dog or cat,
collared or uncollared, owned by or under the control of such person or
persons, to run at large on the streets and public ground of the Municipality,
or upon private property in the Municipality unless such owner or owners, or
persons in control of such animals first secure the consent of the owners of
such property; provided, however, this section shall not apply to animals under
control of the owner or a responsible person by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope
or other suitable means of physical restraint. (Ord. No. 466, 11/20/79)
§ 6-116 DANGEROUS DOGS; DEFINITIONS.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY shall mean an entity authorized to enforce the
animal control laws of a City, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city .
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall mean any individual employed, appointed, or
authorized by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the
enforcement of this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing
of animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG shall mean:
   a.   Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control authority:
      (i)    Has killed a human being;
      (ii)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
      (iii)    Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (iv)    Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   b.   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog if the individual was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has, in
the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
dog.
   c.   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog if the injury, damage, or
threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass as defined in sections 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 RS Neb., was
committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
   d.   A dog shall not be defined as a dangerous dog if the dog is a police
animal as defined in section 28-1008 RS Neb.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL shall mean a cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes
buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park,
refuge, wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit;
   MEDICAL TREATMENT shall mean treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one (1) or more broken bones.
   OWNER shall mean any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing , harboring, keeping, or having control
or custody of a dog;
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall mean:
   a.    Any dog that when unprovoked;
      (i)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment; or
      (ii)   Injures a domestic animal, or;
      (iii) Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or;
   b.   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals; and(Ref. 54-617 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 569, 12/5/89)
§ 6-117 DANGEROUS DOGS; MUZZLE AND LEASH RESTRAINTS.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient
to prevent such animal from biting persons or other animals, and is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than four feet in length controlled by a person
who is the age of 18 years or older, and who is capable of controlling and
restraining said dog. (Ord. No. 569, 12/5/89) (Amended by Ord. No. 821, 3/3/09)
§ 6-118 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
   (2)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten (10) feet from any property line of the owner.
The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the
dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign
shall be no less than ten inches by twelve (12) inches and shall contain the
words warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three
inches high on a black background.(Ref. 54-619 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 569, 12/5/89)
§ 6-119 DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this article. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this article.
   (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ref. 54-620 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 569, 12/5/89)
   (3)   (a)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in section 28-109 RS Neb. is guilty of a Class
I misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (b)   It is a defense to a violation of subsection (3)(a) of this section
that the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily
injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than
the owner or the owner's immediate family. (Ref. 54-622.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-120 DANGEROUS DOGS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the City from establishing and enforcing laws or ordinances
at least as stringent as the provisions of this article. (Ref. 54-624 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 569, 12/5/89)
§ 6-121 DOGS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of vehicles while they are on any public
sidewalk, street, or alley in the Municipality. (Ord. No. 508, 8/7/84)
§ 6-122 PIT BULL DOGS AND CROSS BREEDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, or permit the
keeping or maintenance within the corporate limits of the municipality, of any
pit bull terrier, which shall be defined as any American Pit Bull Terrier or
Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dog, or
any mixed breed of dog which contains as an element of its breeding the breed
of dog which contains as an element of its breeding the breed of American Pit
Bull Terrier or Staffordshire Bull Terrier, or American Staffordshire Terrier
as to be identifiable as partially of the breed of American Pit Bull Terrier or
Staffordshire Bull Terrier, or American Staffordshire Bull Terrier, including
dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being predominately of
the breeds of dogs known as the Staffordshire Bull Terrier, the American
Staffordshire Terrier, or the American Pit Bull Terrier. This section shall not
apply to owners of registered pit bulls that are currently license or are under
the age of six months and these dogs shall hereby be grandfathered. (Ord. No.
819, 3/3/09)
§ 6-123 PENALTY FOR POSSESSION OF PIT BULL AND CROSS BREEDS.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of Chapter 6, Article 1, Section
122 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction there shall be
fined not less than $250 for a first offense; $350 for a second offense; and
not less than $500.00 for a third offense, but no more than $500 for any
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply. (Ord. No. 819, 3/3/09)
§ 6-124 PENALTIES; DANGEROUS DOGS.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of Chapter 6, Article 1,
relating to dangerous dogs, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction there shall be fined not less than $250 for a first offense; $350
for a second offense; and not less than $500 for a third offense, but no more
than $500 for any offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply. (Ord. No. 820, 3/3/09)
ARTICLE 2: ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 6-201 ANIMALS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock. (Ref. 17-
547 RS Neb.)
§ 6-202 KEEPING OF POULTRY.
   (A)   Poultry shall be defined as domestic fowl, chickens and ducks but
specifically exclude turkeys, peacocks, geese and guinea fowl.
   (B)   Poultry may be kept within the zoning jurisdiction of the City of
Milford subject to the conditions set forth herein.
   (C)   Any person who keeps poultry in the City of Milford or its zoning
jurisdiction shall obtain a permit from the City prior to acquiring the
poultry. Application shall be made to the City Clerk. Permits shall cost fifty
dollars ($50.00) per household.
   (D)   Permits expire and become invalid five (5) years after the date of
issuance. A person who wishes to continue keeping poultry shall have obtained a
new permit on or before the expiration date of the previous permit. Application
for a new permit shall be pursuant to the procedures and requirements that are
applicable at the time the person applies for a new permit to include a plot
plan showing the building in which the coop may be located.
   (E)   A person who keeps or houses poultry on his or her property shall
comply with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   No more than six (6) hens/ducks may be kept on any one lot. Any
poultry under the age of thirty (30) days are excluded from this number.
      (2)   The principal use of the property shall be a single-family
dwelling.
      (3)   No person shall keep any rooster.
      (4)   No person shall slaughter any hens/ducks within the City limits.
      (5)   The poultry shall be provided with a covered enclosure. Such
covered enclosure (or coop) shall contain at least four (4) square feet of
floor area per hen, and the fenced enclosure shall provide at least ten (10)
square feet of open area per hen. No covered enclosure shall exceed one hundred
(120) square feet of floor area or exceed twelve (12) feet in height.
      (6)   A person shall not keep hens in any location on the property other
than in the rear yard. For purposes of this section, REAR YARD means that
portion of a lot enclosed by the property's rear lot line and the side lot
lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect with an imaginary line
established by the rear of the dwelling and extending to the side lot lines.
      (7)   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located closer
than ten (10) feet to any property line of an adjacent property.
      (8)   All enclosures for the keeping of hens shall be so constructed or
repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being harbored
underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure. A covered enclosure
or fenced enclosure shall not be located closer than forty (40) feet to any
residential structure on another person's property.
      (9)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of hens that
are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats, mice, or
other rodents shall be protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents
from gaining access to or' coming into contact with them.
      (10)   All poultry and other items associated with the keeping of poultry
must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition so as not to give off offensive
odors which are a source of discomfort to persons residing in the vicinity
thereof.
      (11)   The owner of any poultry shall not allow offal, manure, or waste
material of such animal to accumulate or remain in the coop, enclosures, and
shelter areas in which such animal or poultry resides or is confined in any
manner which is conducive to the breeding or attraction of flies, mosquitoes,
or other noxious insects or in any manner which endangers the public health or
safety or which creates an unhealthy environment.
      (12)   The owner of any poultry shall, in a sanitary manner, remove or
dispose of all offal, manure, and waste material accumulating from such poultry
at least once every thirty days.
      (13)   No person keeping or harboring any poultry shall permit such
poultry to go loose or run at large. In the event that any poultry found
running at large is creating a hazard to the safety of others or another
person's property, such poultry shall be destroyed if it cannot be confined or
captured. The City shall not be required to give notice to the owner of the
poultry prior to its destruction.
      (14)   The maintenance or permitting of any of the foregoing conditions
on any such lot or parcel of ground is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      (15)   Eggs produced by permitted chickens may be sold by the permit
holder.
   (F)   If the above requirements are not complied with, the City may revoke
any permit granted under this section and/or initiate prosecution for a civil
infraction violation. A person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any police officer. (Ord. No. 911, 4/4/17)
§ 6-203 DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND REPTILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits, any boa constrictor, poisonous snake, or other dangerous reptile or any
wild or nondomesticated animal. (Ref. 17-547 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 504, 10/4/83)
§ 6-204 NUMBER OF DOGS, CATS PETS OR OTHER ANIMALS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep, or permit to
be kept upon any premises occupied by person or persons, or under the charge or
control of such person or persons, more than three (3) dogs; three (3) cats; or
three (3) animals or pets of the same species. Provided, however, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to an Animal Shelter or to animal
hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the laws of the State
of Nebraska, keeping animals for others for treatment or boarding, which are
properly zoned for such purposes. This section shall not apply to small caged
birds or aquatic or amphibian animals kept solely as pets. Owners possessing
more than three (3) licensed animals of the same species at the time this
section becomes effective, may keep said animals as long as they are licensed
by the City. This exception only applies to those animals who are licensed at
the time this section becomes effective, and does not apply to animals
subsequently acquired by the owner.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any portion of this section shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. No. 860, 10/2/12)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
§ 6-301 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a Municipal or State Police
Officer to wear an official badge or uniform, or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials. (Ref. 28-715.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-302 MISDEMEANORS; REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a Municipal Police
Officer when lawfully requested to do so by him. Any person who refuses to
assist an officer when lawfully requested to do so shall be fined in any amount
not exceeding fifty ($50.00) dollars. (Ref. 28-728 RS Neb.)
§ 6-303 MISDEMEANORS; ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or Municipal
official in the execution of his office. (Ref. 28-729 RS Neb.)
§ 6-304 MISDEMEANORS; TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the Municipality, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower, or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same. (Ref. 28-588, 28-588.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-305 MISDEMEANORS; MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another. (Ref. 28-572, 28-
573 RS Neb.)
§ 6-306 MISDEMEANORS; LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than three hundred ($300.00) dollars shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-512, 28-514 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 396, 12/16/75)
§ 6-307 MISDEMEANORS; ARSON.
   Any person who willfully or maliciously sets on fire any property when the
injury or damage therefrom shall be of a less value than thirty-five dollars
($35.00), shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-503 RS Neb.)
§ 6-308 MISDEMEANORS; INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the Governing Body to do so, and the written permit of the Governing Body in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so. (Ref. 28-519 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 416, 3/1/77)
§ 6-309 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
§ 6-310 MISDEMEANORS; TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or
negligently place or throw upon the premise of another any filth, garbage,
leaves, papers, or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant
thereon. (Ref. 28-523 RS Neb.)
§ 6-311 MISDEMEANORS; DRUNKENNESS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 598, 7/7/92)
§ 6-312 MISDEMEANORS; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
Municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theaters, dance
halls, or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 53-186 RS Neb.)
§ 6-313 MISDEMEANORS; MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years,
to represent that he or she is of the age of twenty-one (21) years or older for
the purpose of asking for, purchasing, or receiving any alcoholic beverages.
(Ref. 53-180.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 599, 7/7/92)
§ 6-314 MISDEMEANORS; MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in section 53-103
RS Neb. shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions of the
terms "alcoholic liquor," "consume," "minor," "sale," and "to sell."
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or
have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any
tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys, roads, or
highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or
inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but not limited
to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, or upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess,
or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious
rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age
to transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control
beer or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle. (Ref.
53-180.02 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 600, 7/7/92; 801, 3/4/08)
§ 6-315 MISDEMEANORS; POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove, or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person,
firm, or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted, and the same remains of value.
§ 6-316 MISDEMEANORS; POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or paint any sign,
advertisement, or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building, or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
§ 6-317 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the Municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-318 MISDEMEANORS; PROVOKING ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the Municipality to
intentionally provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or another
by the uttering of insulting words, cursing and swearing, or to use slander
against any other person. Upon conviction a fine not to exceed ten ($10.00)
dollars shall be assessed. (Ref. 28-412 RS Neb.)
§ 6-319 MISDEMEANORS; MENACING THREATS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of
this Municipality to assault or threaten another in a menacing manner or strike
or injure another.
§ 6-320 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-411 RS Neb.)
§ 6-321 MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the Municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the Municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-818 RS Neb.)
§ 6-322 MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
§ 6-323 MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all
doors and make the same reasonably safe. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 6-324 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
§ 6-325 MISDEMEANORS; REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take
away from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or
other materials forming a part of such street, alley, or public grounds without
first having obtained written permission to do so from the Governing Body.
§ 6-326 MISDEMEANORS; WEED REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in the Municipality to
cut and clear such real estate, together with one half (1/2) of the streets and
alleys abutting thereon, of all weeds and worthless vegetation that are
noxious, obstruct travel on public ways, or create a fire or health hazard.
Such weeds and worthless vegetation shall be cut so as not to extend more than
six (6") inches above the ground. Subsequent to the cutting of the said weeds,
all loose vegetation shall be immediately removed. Upon the failure of the
owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any such real estate to cut and
clear the said weeds and worthless vegetation as set forth hereinbefore, the
Municipal Police shall serve notice on the said owner, lessee, or occupant to
do so. In the event that the weeds and vegetation have not been removed after a
period of five (5) days, the Governing Body may order the same to be done under
the direction of the Municipal Police, and the cost thereof shall be chargeable
to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the Municipality after
being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the real estate and the
Governing Body shall have the assessment certified to the County Treasurer and
the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ref. 17-563.01, 18-1719 RS Neb.)
§ 6-327 MISDEMEANORS; NUISANCES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the Municipality.
   (2)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the Municipality. For the purposes of carrying out the
provisions of this section the Municipal Police shall have the authority to
enter upon private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (3)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance,
the Municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any
portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground
so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed. (Ref. 17-555, 18-720, 28-1321 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
639, 6/6/95)
§ 6-328 MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (B) of this section. (Ref. 60-1907 RS Neb.)
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the Municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned. (Ref. 60-1908 RS Neb.)
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   1.   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
               a.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid "in
transit" stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six (6) hours on any public property;
               b.   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on
any public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
               c.   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours
after the parking of the vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of
any public property on which parking is legally permitted;
               d.   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
               e.   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last
registered owner under division (E) of this section; or
               f.   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this Code.
            2.   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
               a.   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on
any public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
               b.   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours
after the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of
any public property on which parking is legally permitted;
               c.   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
               d.   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
Municipal law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last
registered owner under division (E) of this section; or
               e.   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this Code.
         (b)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under section 28-431 RS
Neb. shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (B). (Ref. 60-1901 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid "in transit" stickers issued pursuant to
section 60-376 RS Neb. affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or less, title shall immediately vest in the Municipality. (Ref. 60-
1902 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) of this section,
the Municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of
an abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued the license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The Municipality shall notify the last registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
(5) days from the date the notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the Municipality thirty (30) days after the
date the notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the Municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) of this section shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming the vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
Municipality:
         (a)   Five (5) days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the
Municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of that fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) of this section, the Municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the Municipality has determined that the vehicle should
be retained for use, the Municipality shall, at the same time that the notice,
if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the Municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the Municipality
thirty (30) days after publication. (Ref. 60-1903 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   If the Municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after thirty (30) days
the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees. (Ref. 60-
1903.01 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   The Municipal law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the
private property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon
information indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle.
After removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall
follow the procedures in divisions (C) and (D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   The Municipal law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a
private towing service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle
from private property upon the request of the private property owner on whose
property the vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the
vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle.
         (a)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the
vehicle. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to retain
possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid.
         (b)   The person towing the vehicle shall, within fifteen (15)
business days after towing, notify any lienholder appearing on the certificate
of title of the vehicle and the owner of the vehicle of the towing. The notice
shall contain:
            1.   Make, model, color, year and VIN number;
            2.   Name, address and telephone number of the person who towed the
vehicle;
            3.   Date of towing;
            4.   Daily storage fee, including accrued storage fees as of the
date of notification; and
            5.   Statement that the vehicle is subject to lien and disposition
by sale or other manner ninety (90) days after date of towing.
         (c)   Failure to provide notice shall result in the lien being
subordinate to the lienholder appearing on the certificate of title and render
void any disposition of the vehicle. (Ref. 60-2410 RS Neb.)
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within twenty-four (24) hours, the
designated law enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is
removed and provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification
number, if available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name
of the private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the
private towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
division is subject to the requirements set forth in division (F)(2)(b) of this
section.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking. (Ref. 60-1903.02 RS Neb.)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the Municipality, shall be held by the Municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of the vehicle, for a
period of two (2) years. If not claimed within that two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the Municipality. (Ref. 60-1905
RS Neb.)
   (H)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the Municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to the vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the Municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition. (Ref. 60-1906 RS Neb.)
   (I)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the Municipality for the costs of removal and storage of the vehicle. (Ref. 60-
1909 RS Neb.)
   (J)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or
park, or other state, county, or municipally owned property. (Ref. 60-1901 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 418, 3/1/77; 938, 3/5/19)
§ 6-329 MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any property
within the Municipality, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, to allow any nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled
vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days. It shall be
unlawful for any person in charge or control of any property within the City,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow any vehicle
which has been unregistered for more than thirty (30) days to remain on such
property. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise; or
a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 419, 3/1/77; 673, 9/2/97; 939, 6/12/19)
§ 6-329.01 HOBBYIST PERMIT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 939, 6/12/19)
§ 6-330 MISDEMEANORS; UNENCLOSED SWIMMING POOLS.
   Every family swimming pool having a depth of eighteen inches (18") or more
shall be completely surrounded by a fence or wall not less than four feet (4')
in height, which shall be so constructed as not to have openings, holes, or
gaps larger than four inches (4") in any dimension except for doors and gates;
and if a picket fence is erected and maintained, the horizontal dimension shall
not exceed four inches between pickets. A dwelling house or accessory building
may be used as part of such enclosure.
   All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped with
sufficient latches and/or locks for keeping the gate or door securely closed at
all times when not in actual use, and shall be kept securely closed at all
times except when in actual use.
   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this Chapter who
fails, neglects or refuses to perform such duty or who shall violate any
provision hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this Municipal
ordinance and shall be fined in any sum not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) and costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation of this Chapter
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such. (Ord. No. 501, 10/4/83)
§ 6-331 MISDEMEANORS; URINATING AND/OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform bodily toilet functions upon
any public street, way, alley, or other public property, or upon private
property belonging to other persons, except in restroom facilities specifically
provided for such bodily toilet functions. (Ref. 28-806 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 505,
10/4/83)
§ 6-332 MISDEMEANORS; DISPENSING OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS FROM VENDING MACHINES
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, it shall be
unlawful to dispense cigarettes or other tobacco products from a vending
machine or similar device.
   (2)   Cigarettes or other tobacco products may be dispensed from a vending
machine or similar device when such machine or device is located in an area,
office, business, plant, or factory which is not open to the general public or
on the licensed premises of any establishment having a license issued under the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises when such machine or device is located in the same room in which
the alcoholic liquor is dispensed. (Ref. 28-1429.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 616, 5/
4/93)
§ 6-333 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGING OF FIREWORKS.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, launch or
throw any fireworks, or any object which is lighted to explode, or which
explodes upon contact with another object:
      (a)   From, onto or into a motor vehicle;
      (b)   Onto any street, highway or public sidewalk;
      (c)   At or near any person;
      (d)   Into any building;
      (e)   Into or upon the premises of another person; or
      (f)   In any of the Municipal parks.
   However, subsection (f) shall not prohibit the Governing Body from issuing
special written permission to organizations authorizing them to use the City
parks for public fireworks displays.
   (g)   The discharge and exploding of permissible fireworks within the
Municipality shall be allowed only on the following dates and between the
following hours:
   June 24 through July 3 - 8:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
   July 4 - 8:00 A.M. to Midnight
   July 5 - 8:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
   (2) The discharge and exploding of any fireworks within the Municipality on
dates or times other than those set out in this section shall be unlawful.
(Ref. 17-137, 28-1241 through 28-1252 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 631, 6/7/94) (Amended
by Ord. No. 699, 1/4/00)
§ 6-334 MISDEMEANORS; EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the City to operate any radio,
tape player, compact disc player, stereophonic sound system, or similar device
which reproduces or amplifies radio broadcasts, or musical recordings, in or
upon any street, or alley or public place in such a manner as to be audible to
any person at any point or place more than fifty (50) feet from the source. The
prohibition set forth herein shall not apply to such activity:
   (1) When conducted in connection with an activity or event sponsored by a
school, church, or governmental entity;
   (2) When conducted in connection with an activity opened to the public such
as a carnival, circus or athletic event; and
   (3) If a permit for same has been issued by the City Council, or its
designee, which permit may include such conditions as the City Council or its
designee, shall deem necessary and appropriate; provided however such
conditions shall be reasonably related to preserving the public peace, and
shall not infringe upon the applicants right to free speech.
(Ord. No. 709, 11/7/00)
§ 6-335 SEXUAL PREDATORS/SEX OFFENDERS; REGISTRATION; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.  
      (1)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons' place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the City's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply.
         CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one (1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one (1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
section 29-4003 RS Neb. and who is required to register as a sex offender
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under section 29-
4013 RS Neb., and who has victimized a person eighteen (18) years of age or
younger.
   (C)   Residency restrictions; penalties and exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within five hundred (500) feet from a school or child care
facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the Code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision; or
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that
residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator's residence at that location. (Ref. 29-4003
and 29-4013 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Violation. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any other the provisions of the section shall be deemed to have
committed a new violation every twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to
comply. (Ord. No. 778, 6/6/06)
§ 6-336 MISDEMEANORS; CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any permit holder under the Concealed Handgun
Permit Act, to carry a handgun into or onto any place or premises where
handguns are prohibited by law or rule or regulation, or into or onto any
Municipal building or property, Municipal park, ball field, fire station,
swimming pool or other Municipal property of the City other than a public
street, alley, parking lot, or sidewalk.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. No. 788, 2/6/07)
§ 6-337 MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person fifteen (15) years of age or younger to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play, drive or be in or upon any of the streets,
roads, alleys, parks, or public places in the City or be in any vehicle upon
the streets, roads, alleys or parks of the City or in any places of public
amusement or recreation in said City after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and before
the hour of 6:00 a.m. unless such person is:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult having the legal
care, custody or control of such person;
   (B)   Traveling in connection with some business purpose required by
employment;
   (C)   Attending a school or religious function; or
   (D)   Responding to an emergency.
(Ord. No. 784, 11/7/06)
§ 6-338 DEPOSIT OF SNOW UPON PUBLIC STREETS AND PROPERTIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to blow, push, move or
deposit snow from private property onto or upon any public street, sidewalk,
alley, right-of-way or other municipal property, or from driveways located
within public right-of-ways onto a public street or onto a right-of-way located
on the opposite side of any street, except as hereinafter provided. Snow may be
deposited by a property owner on the public right-of-way adjacent to his or her
property as long as the snow does not interfere with pedestrian traffic upon
any sidewalk and does not create a safety, visibility or other hazard for
vehicular traffic. Snow may be deposited on the right-of-way on the opposite
side of the street, and as long as the property owner abutting said right-of-
way has consented thereto and as long as the snow does not interfere with
pedestrian traffic upon any sidewalk and does not create a safety, visibility
or other hazard for vehicular traffic. Any person violating this code shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to
a fine as set forth in § 12-101 of the Municipal code.
(Ord. No, 893, 4/7/15)
ARTICLE 4: DISORDERLY HOUSES
§ 6-401 DISORDERLY HOUSES; SUPPRESSION OF NUISANCES.
   Any room, house, building, structure or place and any property kept and used
in maintaining the same, where, in violation of the ordinances of the City,
where unlawful or illegal acts are committed, is hereby declared to be an
unreasonable interference with the health, safety, welfare and property of the
citizens of the City, a disorderly house, and a public or common nuisance, may
be restrained or suppressed by the City in any manner provided by law, and the
City Attorney is hereby authorized and empowered to take such legal action as
may be necessary to restrain or suppress such nuisances.
(Ord. No. 718, 10/2/01)
§ 6-402 DISORDERLY HOUSES; MAINTAINING.
   The term DISORDERLY HOUSE as used in this Article shall be deemed any room,
house, building, structure or premises where unlawful or illegal acts are being
committed. It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or proprietor of any
room, house, building, structure or premises who to knowingly collects or
permits to be collected therein persons who are engaging in any unlawful act,
or who to knowingly makes, causes, permits or suffers to be made therein any
loud or improper noise to the annoyance or disturbance of any person or
neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 718, 10/2/01)
§ 6-403 DISORDERLY HOUSES; INMATES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an inmate of or visit or frequent
any disorderly house as declared in section 6-402 with knowledge of and
participation in the illegal activities occurring therein.
(Ord. No. 718, 10/2/01)
§ 6-404 DISORDERLY HOUSES; FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (1)   Whenever a police officer has probably cause to believe that a person
or persons creating a disturbance of the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood, such police officer may order said person or persons not residing
on the premises to disperse for the purpose of abating the said disturbance.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to comply with a lawful
order to disperse given by a police officer in the performance of the officer's
duties under this section.
(Ord. No. 718, 10/2/01) 
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 6-502 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
§ 6-503 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION.
   Any property that shall come into the possession of the Chief of Police by
virtue of his or her office, the disposition of which is not otherwise provided
for by law, and which appears to be abandoned or unclaimed, may be sold at
auction or disposed of as provided in §§
6-503.01 to
6-503.02. (Ord. No. 855, 11/1/11)
§ 6-503.01 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; SALE; DISPOSAL; PROCEDURE.
   If the property described in §
6-503 shall remain unclaimed for a period of not less than one hundred eighty
(180) days, the Chief of Police may sell such property at auction. Prior to
such sale the Chief of Police shall cause a list of all property subject to
sale to be published once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county in which he or she holds office. If such
property is not bid upon at sale or the Chief of Police reasonably believes
that such property has little or no sale value, he or she may dispose of such
property. Before the Chief of Police may dispose of such property he or she
shall submit a plan for disposing of such property to the City Council for its
approval. Upon the approval of the Council, the Chief of Police may dispose of
such property in the manner approved and shall be exempt from any civil
liability for such action. (Ord. No. 855, 11/1/11)
§ 6-503.02 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; SALE PROCEEDS; DISPOSITION.
   The Chief of Police shall pay over to the City Clerk/Treasurer the proceeds
of any sale authorized, less the reasonable expenses of such sale. The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall hold such proceeds for a period of two (2) years from the
date of sale. If at the end of such period no person has presented a lawful
claim to the proceeds of such sale, the Clerk/Treasurer shall deposit such
proceeds, including any interest thereon, to the General Fund of the City and
any claims thereon shall be extinguished. (Ord. No. 855, 11/1/11)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
      Article
         
1.   FIRES
         
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
3.   POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GAMES STORAGE
         
4.   EXPLOSIVES AND GASOLINE TRANSPORTATION
         
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: FIRES
§ 7-101 FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the Municipal Firemen to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102 FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or
refuse to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of' their official duties. (Ref. 28-730.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-103 FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality.
§ 7-104 FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-730.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-105 FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within fifteen (15) feet of the said hydrant. Any
vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the
Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense
of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 39-738 RS Neb.)
§ 7-106 FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property. (Ref. 28-730.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-107 FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
§ 7-108 FIRES; TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five (5) minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than five hundred
(500) feet to any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-753 RS
Neb.)
§ 7-109 FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
§ 7-110 FIRES; PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PREVENTION ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the fire
prevention provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-202 FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
Municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 7-203 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the Municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits:
   Commencing at Walnut Avenue on First (1st) Street west on First (1st) Street
to C Street one half (½) block on each side of First (1st) Street between
Walnut Avenue and C Street.
(Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-204 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with such
incombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fireproof. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-205 FIRE PREVENTION; PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any wooden
or combustible building in the fire limits where the value of the repair is
more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars unless the said person shall first
receive permission from the Governing Body to make such repairs, alterations,
or to add to any building. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor
repairs shall not require permission. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-206 FIRE PREVENTION; IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-207 FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged it shall
be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the said
building in accordance with the provisions of this Article. It shall be
unlawful for any person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed
condition. Any such building shall be removed or repaired within sixty (60)
days after receiving notice to do so by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-550 RS
Neb.)
§ 7-208 FIRE PREVENTION; LUMBER YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, or maintain any
lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping, or selling any lumber,
or to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw, or other combustible materials
on any lot or parcel of ground within said fire limits, unless the same is
securely kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete, or other
non-combustible material; Provided, the foregoing shall not apply to lumber
yards now built and in use. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§ 7-209 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the Municipality.
(Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 7-210 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING REGULATED.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the burning of
garbage or refuse within the corporate limits unless such burning takes place
in a multiple chambered incinerator located within a building or accessory
thereto situated on the premise and vented into a masonry or metal flue;
provided, that the emissions from such multiple chambered incinerator do not
cause a nuisance; provided, however, that open burning shall not be a violation
of this section when authorized pursuant to section
7-210.01 of this Code.
   (2)   Open burning is defined as the burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient
air without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   (3)   Multiple Chamber Incinerator is defined as any incinerator used to
dispose of combustible refuse by burning, consisting of three (3) or more
refractory line combustion furnaces in series, physically separated by
refractory walls, interconnected by gas passage ports or ducts and employing
adequate design parameters necessary for maximum combustion of the material to
be burned, the refractories having a Pyrometric Cone Equivalent of thirty-one
(31), tested according to the method described in the American Society for
Testing and Materials Method C-24-56. Gas or fuel fired incinerators now in use
may be used until the same become unusable. Thereafter, multiple chamber
incinerators, as defined herein, shall be used as permitted and provided by
this section.
   (4)   Any person within the jurisdiction of the Municipality shall be
responsible for compliance with this section. Any person or persons in
violation of this section shall be served a summons by the Municipal Police of
Sheriff requiring such person or persons to appear before the County Judge no
earlier than ten (10) days from the date said summons is served. In addition to
any penalty, the Municipality shall have the power and authority to enforce the
provisions of this section by injunction and other equitable proceedings in
courts of general jurisdiction in the State of Nebraska. (Amended by Ord. Nos.
468, 5/6/80; 642, 6/6/95)
§ 7-210.01 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (1)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (2)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under subsection (1) of this section for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall
be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (3)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (4)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under subsection (2) of this section.
   (5)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed ten
dollars ($10.00), for each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to
the Governing Body for inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire
Department. Such funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department. No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under
subsection (2) of this section in the course of such state's or political
subdivision's official duties. (Ref. 81-520.01 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 641, 6/6/95)
§ 7-211 FIRE PREVENTION; BURNING DEFINED.
   The term "Burning" as used in this Article, shall mean the burning of any
materials wherein air contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted into
the ambient air, and shall include burning within an enclosed chamber and open
burning. (Ord. No. 468, 5/6/80)
§ 7-212 FIRE PREVENTION; PERMIT; FIRE MARSHAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Any person desiring a burning permit as provided in Section
7-210 shall prior to such intended burning, file a request for such permit with
the Chief of Police who may issue a permit subject to special conditions. The
application shall include the following:
   1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person submitting the
application.
   2.   The type of business or activity involved;
   3.   A description of the proposed equipment and operating practice to be
used to prevent an uncontrolled fire;
   4.   The type, quantity and composition of the material to be burned;
   5.   The exact location where the burning will occur;
   6.   The schedule of burning operations;
   7.   Specific reasons why burning is the only feasible method of disposal
and why open burning is not against the public interest.
   Such permit shall be issued by the Chief of Police if he determines that
such burning is the only feasible method of disposal of such material sought to
be burned, and that it is not against the public interest to permit such
burning. In the event such permit is denied, the applicant may appeal the
denial to the Municipal Council for consideration at the next regular meeting.
(Ord. No. 468, 5/6/80)
§ 7-213 FIRE PREVENTION; RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (A)   Definition. The 2009 edition of the International Fire Code defines
RECREATIONAL FIRES as: "An outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total fuel area of 3 feet
(914mm) or less and 2 feet (610mm) or less in height for pleasure, religious,
ceremonial, cooking or similar purposes."
   (B)   Regulations. Regulations for recreational fires as set forth by the
City shall be as follows:
      (1)   Fuel area shall be a maximum of three (3) feet in diameter.
      (2)   Flames shall be a maximum of two (2) feet above ground level.
      (3)   Fire pits shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from
buildings.
      (4)   Fires in an approved container shall be a minimum of fifteen (15)
feet from structures.
      (5)   Above ground fire pits and chimineas are considered as approved
containers.
      (6)   No flammable liquids are allowed to start or maintain fire.
      (7)   Burn only charcoal or clean wood (no stained painted, varnished, or
chemically treated wood). Leaves, grass or other items that will produce heavy
smoke shall not be burned.
      (8)   Recreational fires shall be constantly attended by at least one (1)
competent person eighteen (18) years of age or older and shall be completely
extinguished before being abandoned.
      (9)   On-site fire-extinguishing equipment-such as operable garden hoses,
sand and shovels, water buckets or barrels, or a portable fire extinguisher
with a minimum of a 4-A rating shall be readily available for use at
recreational fires.
   (C)   Discontinuance. The Fire Chief, Chief of Police or any authorized
member of the Fire Department, or officer of the Police Department may order
the immediate extinguishment or may they themselves immediately extinguish any
recreational fire which falls into any one (1) of the following categories:
      (1)   Creates a hazardous or unsafe condition.
      (2)   Creates a nuisance or reasonably objectionable situation for any
nearby resident.
      (3)   Violates any provision of this chapter or of any other chapter of
this Code.
      (4)   Violates any provision of the Nebraska State Fire Code.
   (D)   A citation may be issued which could lead to a fine of up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and a mandatory court appearance.
   (E)   The Fire Department strongly suggests you follow the manufacturer's
recommendations when using any above-ground fire pit or chiminea.
   (F)   Exception. The provisions of §
7-210 regulating open burning shall not apply to recreational fires as defined
herein. (Ord. No. 863, 10/2/12)
ARTICLE 3: POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES STORAGE
§ 7-301 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
Municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas,
liquefied petroleum gas, diesel fuel, or any other liquefied petroleum product,
or any other flammable or poisonous gas, or add to, enlarge, or replace any
facility used for the storage of such gases or fuel, must first get the
permission from the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall require the name
of the gas or fuel, the place of storage and the amount of gas stored. It shall
be the duty of the Governing Body to prescribe such rules, regulations and
precautionary actions as they may deem necessary, by Resolution of said
Governing Body; Provided, however, that no storage of such gases or fuels in
excess of ten (10) gallons shall be permitted in any residential district
unless the same is located within the fuel tank of an operable motor vehicle.
(Amended by Ord. No. 472, 6/17/80)
ARTICLE 4: EXPLOSIVES AND GASOLINE TRANSPORTATION
§ 7-401 EXPLOSIVES; ROUTES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to designate the routes which
trucks carrying dynamite, nitroglycerine, or other explosives must use and in
case no such route is prescribed, the travel of such trucks shall be only on U.
S. Highway No. 6.
§ 7-402 EXPLOSIVES; STOPPING.
   No vehicle transporting explosives shall stop within the corporate limits
and in case of breakdown or mechanical failure immediate notice shall be given
to the Chief of Police and the vehicle shall be removed as soon as possible.
§ 7-403 GASOLINE; TRANSPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for gasoline transports to operate or park upon the
streets except that such transports can operate on U. S. Highway No. 6, and
upon the streets leading directly to the bulk gas stations.
§ 7-404 GASOLINE; TANK TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for gasoline tank trucks, also known as gasoline tank
wagons, to operate upon the streets except upon direct routes between bulk
gasoline stations and filling stations; and it shall be unlawful for any such
vehicle to park upon the streets except at the site of a filling station or
bulk gasoline station.
§ 7-405 GASOLINE; TRANSPORTS AND TANK WAGONS.
   It shall be unlawful for gasoline transports, or gasoline tank trucks, also
known as gasoline tank wagons, to stop or park on any private property or
driveway within the Municipality except at the site of a filling station or
bulk gasoline station, or at a place of business for service or repairs to such
vehicle.
§ 7-406 GASOLINE; DELIVERY.
   The Sections of this Article are not to be construed so as to prevent the
delivery of fuel oil for heating purposes.
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
§ 7-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      Article
         
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
         
2.   SIDEWALKS
         
3.   STREETS
         
4.   CURB AND GUTTER
         
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 8-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The term "sidewalk space," as used herein, shall mean that
portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
§ 8-102 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-103 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (1)   Except as provided in subdivision (10) of this section, the power of
the City to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale of such
real property and the manner and terms thereof.
   (2)   In the event the City Council, through the authorizing resolution
described in subdivision (1) above, directs, in its discretion, the sale of
such real property at public auction or by sealed bid, the City Council may
establish a minimum price for such real property at which bidding shall begin,
or which shall serve as a minimum price for any such sealed bid process.
   (3)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real property described in subdivision (1) of this section,
and the terms of such sales, shall be published once each week for three
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
City.
   (4)   If within thirty (30) days after the third publication of the notice,
a remonstrance petition against such sale is signed by the registered voters of
the City equal in number to thirty percent (30%) of the registered voters of
the City voting at the last regular municipal election held in the City and is
filed with the City Council, such property shall not then, nor within one year
thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance petition falls
upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected
within the thirty-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if
filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
   (5)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance petition, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the County Clerk, shall determine the validity and
sufficiency of the signatures on the remonstrance petition. The City Council
shall deliver the remonstrance petition to the County Clerk by hand carrier, by
use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance petition, the County Clerk shall
issue to the City Council a written receipt that the remonstrance petition is
in the custody of the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance petition with the voter
registration records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or
before the date on which the remonstrance petition was filed with the City
Council. The County Clerk shall also compare the signer's printed name, street
and number or voting precinct, and city or post office address with the voter
registration records, to determine whether the signer was a registered voter.
The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the County
Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and city or post office address matches the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the remonstrance
petition was filed with the City Council. The determinations of the County
Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council finds
sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with
the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the remonstrance petition, the sufficiency of the remonstrance
petition, and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud,
deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance petition process. Upon
completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, the County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification under seal
setting forth the name and address of each signer found not to be a registered
voter and the signature page number and line number where the name is found,
and if the reason for the invalidity of the signature or address is other than
the nonregistration of the signer, the County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the County Clerk determines that a
signer has affixed his or her signature more than once to the remonstrance and
that only one person is registered by that name, the County Clerk shall prepare
in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate
signature and shall count only the earliest dated signature. The County Clerk
shall certify to the City Council the number of valid signatures necessary to
constitute a valid remonstrance petition and shall deliver the remonstrance
petition and the certifications to the Council within forty (40) days after the
receipt of the remonstrance petition from the City Council. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than twenty (20) signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
   (6)   The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
the remonstrance petition and certifications from the County Clerk, hold a
public hearing to review the remonstrance petition and certifications and
receive testimony regarding the same. Following the hearing, the City Council
shall vote on whether or not the remonstrance petition is valid and shall
uphold the remonstrance petition if sufficient valid signatures have been
received.
   (7)   Real property now owned or hereafter owned by the City may be conveyed
without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of sections 18-1001 to 18-1006 RS Neb.
   (8)   Following: (a) passage of the resolution directing the sale; (b)
publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and (c) passage of the thirty-
day right-of-remonstrance period as set forth above, the real property shall
then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating
the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
   (9)   Notwithstanding the procedures in subdivisions (1) through (8) of this
section, real property owned by the City may be directly conveyed when such
property:
      (a)   Is being sold in compliance with the requirements of federal or
state grants or programs;
      (b)   Is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (c)   Consists of streets and alleys.
   (10)   Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein
contained, subdivisions (1) to (9) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). Rather, in the case of real property for which the fair
market value is less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), notice of the sale
shall be posted in three (3) prominent places within the City for a period of
not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale of such property. The notice
shall give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the
terms and conditions of the sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an
ordinance by the City Council may be required through the resolution
authorizing the sale.
   (11)   The power of the City to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
personal property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three (3) prominent
places within the City for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to
the sale of the property. If the fair market value of the personal property is
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), notice of the sale shall also be
published once in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the City at
least seven (7) days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the
procedure in subdivision (11) when: (a) such property is being sold in
compliance with the requirements of federal or state grants or programs; or (b)
such property is being conveyed to another public agency. (Ref. 17-503 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 486, 1/3/83; 983, 12/3/24)
§ 8-104 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article. Said roots may be removed by the
Municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree or
shrub is located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys, or sidewalks. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-105 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his duly authorized
agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for
growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are
found growing thereon, he shall notify the owner or occupant thereof, to cut
down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done and keep the
weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for weeds; provided,
any weeds growing in excess of six (6") inches shall be considered a violation
of this section. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land
within the Municipality is a non-resident of the Municipality or cannot be
found therein the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody,
or control of such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found
no one within the Municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the
duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his agent to post a copy of the notice
on the premise and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the Governing Body. The cost
shall then be audited and paid by the Municipality and the amount thereof shall
be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and
shall be collected as are other taxes of the Municipality or may be recovered
by civil suit brought by the Municipality against the owner of the parcel of
land. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which
the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
§ 8-106 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits
for signs, canopies, posters, and signboards shall be issued by the Mayor. All
signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other
public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no
danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling from other
causes. No sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends over any
public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in such a location as to
obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon the written order
of the Governing Body, any person owning or occupying the premise where such a
sign, canopy, poster, or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be
removed within the time limit specified on such notice. In no case, however,
will a permit be issued where the petitioner desires to support said sign by a
post in any street or on any sidewalk.
§ 8-107 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND
CREATION PROCEDURE.
   The Municipality's Governing Body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing water line, sewer line, or any other such improvement.
   Except as provided in sections 19-2428 to 19-2431 RS Neb., the Governing
Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the Governing Body
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law. (Ref. 18-1751 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 550, 10/6/87)
§ 8-108 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a Municipality may include
land adjacent to such Municipality when creating an improvement as a sewer,
water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension district. The Governing
Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs
of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
except as provided in section
8-315. (Ref. 19-2427 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 551, 10/6/87)
§ 8-109 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (1)   The City shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Governing Body has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (2)   The City shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property. (Ref. 18-1755
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 643B, 6/6/95) 
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALKS
§ 8-201 MUNICIPAL TREE PRUNING; TRIMMING; REMOVAL.
   (1)   All trees and shrubs within the Municipality shall be trimmed or
pruned when such trees or shrubs obstruct visibility of normal vehicle traffic,
obstruct the visibility of any traffic control device or sign, obstruct the
passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, or obstruct the view of any street or
alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging branch is fourteen
feet (14') on all alleys and streets within the Municipality, and eight feet
(8') over sidewalks.
   (2)   All shrubs and hedges shall be kept trimmed by the abutting property
owner at least one foot back from all curbs, sidewalks, driveways or alleys;
and the same shall at all times be left trimmed to a height not greater than
thirty inches (30") above the top of the curb unless the Municipal Police, for
other than corner lots, determine that a greater height would not constitute a
hazard to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   (3)   The property owners shall be responsible for the trimming of all
trees, shrubs and other growth on the property owned by such owner. The City
maintenance crew shall be responsible for trimming and cutting down trees
located on public rights-of-way. The property owner will be responsible for
trimming or removal of all branches hanging over the sidewalk or street from
trees and shrubs located on the owner's property.
   (4)   The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the owner of any property to
cut, prune or remove trees or shrubs in violation of this section at their own
expense. In the event of failure of owners to comply with said notice, the
Municipality shall have the authority to prune, trim or remove said trees or
shrubs and assess the cost of said pruning, trimming or removal to the property
owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the Municipality after being properly
billed, the cost shall be assessed against the real estate and the Governing
Body shall have the assessment certified to the County Treasurer and the same
shall be collected in the manner provided by law. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 1992-
606, 11/3/92; 622, 10/5/93)
§ 8-202 SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or lots or
the owner or occupant of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to
allow snow, sleet, mud, ice, or other substances to accumulate on the sidewalks
abutting said lot or lots, or to permit any snow, sleet, ice, mud, or other
substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within the business
district shall be cleaned and cleared within five (5) hours after the cessation
of a storm or snow, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before eight-
thirty (8:30) o'clock a.m. immediately following the cessation of said storm or
snow fall. All sidewalks within the residential district shall be cleaned
within twenty-four (24) hours after the cessation of said storm or fall of
snow.
   (2)   Any person or persons violating this section shall be subject to a
fine in the amount of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and not
exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00). (Amended by Ord. Nos. 445, 3/6/79; 736, 3/4/
03)
§ 8-203 SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
   (Repealed 2005)
§ 8-204 SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair fo sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
      (1)   By publication in one (1) issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction. (Ref. 17-
522 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the Governing Body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the Municipality's estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten (10) days
after the date of publication of the notice, notify the Municipality that he or
she will repair the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after such date of
publication;
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
Municipality within the ten (10) days or, having so notified the Municipality,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the thirty (30) days, the Municipality will
cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed
against the property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the Municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published. (Ref. 13-310
RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Ref. 13-312 RS Neb.)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, nonresident property owner means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Ref. 13-314 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Governing Body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in section 17-524 RS Neb. (Amended by Ord. No. 738, 5/7/03)
§ 8-205 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk
shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied. Provided, if
it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the Municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the Governing Body who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any
other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the Municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade, or
elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation
indicated by the Municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
§ 8-206 SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the Municipality. Notice of the Governing
Body's intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the Municipal
Clerk by publication of notice one (1) time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality.
   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premise ten (10) days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this Section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
Section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within thirty (30) days after the date of publication and further that if he
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
Provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of said
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-522, 17-523 RS
Neb.)
ARTICLE 3: STREETS
§ 8-301 STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
Governing Body may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
§ 8-302 STREETS; CROSSINGS.
   The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Municipal official in charge of streets, such street,
avenue, and alley crossings as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the Municipal Clerk, said Municipal Clerk shall refer
such application to the chief street official who shall investigate and make
his recommendation to the Governing Body. Action by the Governing Body on such
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
§ 8-303 STREETS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The City shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the City and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the City, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof, and
become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in the ordinance
vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the City, such property
may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as
shall be deemed in the best interests of the City.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
City reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is
retained by the City, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased
upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
City.
      (4)   When the City vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the City shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective
date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the
Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be
indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the City the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the City, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below
the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time
title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public
or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such
purposes at any and all reasonable times.  (Ref. 17-558 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same. (Ref. 17-559 RS Neb.)
§ 8-304 STREETS; EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief Municipal street official authorizing such excavations.
§ 8-305 STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief Municipal Street official.
§ 8-306 STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever. Except at
the direction of the City or for authorized City purposes.
§ 8-307 STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
§ 8-308 STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 8-309 STREETS; HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb; Provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Municipal Police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in
this Section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1, and April 15;
Provided, that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use
metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm
machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets;
and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon
any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide, or skid. (Ref. 39-771 RS Neb.)
§ 8-310 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as "special assessments for improvements" and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-511, 17-524 RS Neb.)
§ 8-311 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Chairman and Board of Trustees shall have the power to improve any
street or part thereof which divides the Municipal corporate area and the area
adjoining the Municipality. When creating an improvement district including
land adjacent to the Municipality, the Board of Trustees shall have power to
assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon
the properties found especially benefited thereby. (Ref. 17-509 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 458, 10/2/79)
§ 8-312 STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than sixty (60%) percent of the front footage of the property directly abutting
upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds
proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefited
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 459, 10/2/79) (Amended by Ord. No. 499, 10/4/
83)
§ 8-313 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS, OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the Governing Body shall deem it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district or districts for six (6) days in a legal
newspaper of the Municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks, if the same be a weekly newspaper. If the owners of the record title
representing more than fifty (50%) percent of the front footage of the property
directly abutting on the street, streets, alley, or alleys to be improved,
shall file with the Municipal Clerk within twenty (20) days after the first
publication of said notice, written objections to the creation of such district
or districts, said improvements shall not be made as provided in said
ordinance; but said ordinance shall be repealed. If said objections are not
filed against the district in the time and manner aforesaid, the Governing Body
shall forthwith cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, and
shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of
land abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or alleys
especially benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits,
to pay the cost of such improvement. (Ref. 17-511 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 459, 10/2/
79)
§ 8-314 STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (1)   Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in section 8-111 which includes land adjacent to the
Municipality which is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively
for agricultural use, the owners of record title of such adjacent land may
apply for a deferral from special assessments. For purposes of this section,
AGRICULTURAL USE means the use of land as described in 77-1359 RS Neb, so that
incidental use of the land for nonagricultural or nonhorticultural purposes
shall not disqualify the land and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE means designation of
any land predominantly for agricultural or horticultural use by any political
subdivision pursuant to sections 19-924 to 19-933; Chapter 14, Article 4;
Chapter 15, Article 9; Chapter 16, Article 9; Chapter 17, Article 10 or Chapter
23, Article 1 RS Neb. The primary objective of the agricultural use zoning
shall be to preserve and protect agricultural activities and the potential for
agricultural, horticultural or open use of land. Uses to be allowed on such
lands include primarily agricultural-related or horticultural-related uses, and
nonagricultural or nonhorticultural industrial, commercial or residential uses
allowed on such lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict with or
detract from this objective.
   (2)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing
Body of the Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in section 8-110. Any owner of record title
who makes application for the deferral provided by this section shall notify
the County Register of Deeds of such application in writing prior to approval
by the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall approve the application of any
owner of record title upon determination that the property:
      (a)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and
      (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (3)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (a)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
      (b)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision (3) of this section.
      (c)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the
transfer;
      (d)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (e)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (4)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
      (a)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (b)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of six (6%) percent from the dates at which such assessments would have
been payable if no deferral had been granted.
   (5)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in subdivision (2) or (3) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer. (Ref. 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 500, 10/4/83)
§ 8-315 STREETS; DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   The Street Superintendent may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 519, 10/2/
84)
ARTICLE 4: CURB AND GUTTER
§ 8-401 CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Governing
Body therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the chief street official's duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the Governing Body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he shall
inform the chief street official, who shall supervise and inspect the materials
used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with
the Governing Body to order the chief street official, under the supervision
and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee of the Governing Body
on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and
charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit. The Governing
Body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by
the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued by the Governing
Body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer
a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body for all paving, curb, or sidewalk
to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction
basis. The deposit shall be retained by the Municipality for the purpose of
replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the
Municipality. In the event the Municipality elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
Municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the chief
street official or of the committee of the Governing Body on streets and
alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant shall,
before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the Municipality with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the Governing Body in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body.
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
§ 8-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
      Article
         
1.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
         
2.   BUILDING PERMITS
         
3.   BUILDING CODE
         
4.   PLUMBING CODE
         
5.   ELECTRICAL CODE
         
6.   WATER WELLS
         
7.   INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
         
8.   INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
         
9.   ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
         
10.   INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
         
11.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 9-101 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the Municipal Official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all Municipal
ordinances. He shall have the power and authority to order at the direction of
the Governing Body, all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He shall issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when he is
satisfied that no provision will be violated. In the event that the Governing
Body fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the Chief of Police shall be the
Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 9-102 BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§ 9-103 BUILDING INSPECTOR; TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his
agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure and
shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed, or shall
notify the permit holder, or his agent that the work fails to comply with the
requirements of the Municipal Code: Foundation Inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; Frame Inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete. Plumbing Inspection shall be made
after all pipe and drainage systems for water and sewer are installed;
Electrical Inspection shall be made after all leadins, wiring, and fuse or
breaker devices are installed; and Final Inspection shall be made after the
building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful for any
person to do work, or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated in each
successive inspection without the written approval of the Building Inspector.
§ 9-104 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this Chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal
within ten (10) days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector has
been made. The Governing Body shall sit and act as the Municipal Board of
Appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING PERMITS
§ 9-201 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, make addition, to demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or
cause the same to be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk an application
for a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall
set forth the legal description of the land upon which the construction or
relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal
dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and
contractor, and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application, plans, and specifications so filed with the Municipal Clerk shall
be forwarded to the Building Inspector for consideration whether such plans are
in conformity with the requirements of this Chapter and all other ordinances
applicable thereto. The Building Inspector shall recommend approval or
disapproval of the application together with his reasons therefor, to the
Municipal Planning Commission, which shall make final determination on approval
or disapproval of the application. If said application is approved the Planning
Commission shall authorize the Municipal Clerk to issue the said applicant a
permit upon the payment of the permit fee as provided by this Article. Any
person aggrieved by such decision shall have the right of appeal to the Board
of Adjustment of the Municipality. Whenever there is a discrepancy between
permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in any
building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern. (Ref. 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550, 17-1001 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 435, 2/21/78)
§ 9-201.01 BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair,
of any building within the Municipality's jurisdiction, and the improvement is
one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be
issued to the County Assessor. (Ref. 18-1743 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 460, 10/2/79)
§ 9-201.02 BUILDING PERMITS; REVIEW BY BUILDING INSPECTOR; TIME LIMITS.
   The Building Inspector shall have a period of time to approve or deny any
building permit of not less than seven (7) days for residential construction
and thirty (30) days for commercial construction. In the event the Building
Inspector's review of plans and specifications and permit application exceeds
seven (7) days for residential or thirty (30) days for commercial, the
Inspector shall advise the applicant of such delay, and shall endeavor to
approve or deny such permit as soon as it can be reasonably accomplished. (Ord.
No. 692, 6/1/99)
§ 9-202 BUILDING PERMITS; LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six (6) months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of six (6) months, or if the construction shall not
have been completed within twelve (12) months of the date of issue, the permit
shall be void, unless the applicant appears before the Zoning Commission and is
granted an extension of time, not exceeding six (6) months, which may be
granted upon a showing of good and sufficient cause. If the project is not
completed within the extension time, a new building permit including payment of
a new permit fee is required. (Amended by Ord. No. 521, 4/2/85)
§ 9-203 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move or
dismantle any building or structure within the Municipality without a written
permit to do so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall
include the present location of the building to be moved, the site to which it
is proposed to move the building, the name of the owner of the building, the
name and address of the person the applicant intends to employ to move the
building, the date on which the building is to be moved and the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. Upon filing such
application, the Clerk shall cause a notice to be published in one (1) issue of
a legal newspaper printed and published in the Municipality, giving public
notice that such application has been filed and that the same will be
considered by the Governing Body at a time and place therein specified, which
shall be not less than seven (7) days after the publication of said notice nor
more than twenty-one (21) days after the filing of said application. The
publication fee for said notice shall be paid by the applicant, and the amount
thereof paid to the Clerk with the filing of said application. At the time and
place stated in said notice, the Governing Body shall consider the application,
and the applicant shall be required to appear and present satisfactory evidence
that said building or structure is not unsafe, unsound, hazardous, unsightly,
dilapidated, vermin infested, and does not constitute a fire hazard, or a
public or private nuisance. At the hearing any applicant may be represented by
legal counsel, and any interested person or persons may appear in person or by
legal counsel and be heard. The Governing Body may grant or deny the
application as filed, or may grant the application on condition, in which event
there shall be endorsed upon the application and permit the words "Granted on
Condition That," followed by a statement of all terms and conditions on which
said application was granted. The Municipal Clerk shall refer the said
application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed route over
which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the Governing Body,
the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; provided, that a good and
sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount of five thousand
($5,000.00) dollars and conditioned upon moving said building without doing
damage to any private or Municipal property is filed with the Municipal Clerk
prior to the granting of any permit. In the event it will be necessary for any
licensed building mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and
wires, or a gas line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the
said poles, wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24)
hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line
relative to the building moving operation. All expense of the said
disconnection, removal, or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the said company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building
necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire
belonging to the Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the
said building moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal
officials in charge of the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
§ 9-204 BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Municipal Police
shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent
of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
Municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the Municipal Police, the Municipal Clerk shall return
the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the
event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the Governing Body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
§ 9-205 PERMIT; FEES.
Building Permit Fees and Valuation Schedule
Building Permit Fees and Valuation Schedule
New Construction Fees
   Water fees                             
Water connection                             
3/4" and 1" (includes meter)                $700
>1" (includes meter)                        $400 plus actual cost of meter
   Sewer fees                             
Sewer connection                            $100
Inspection Fees
   Plan review                           $40 per hour
   Foundation                            $35
Inspection Fees (Cont'd)
   Framing rough-in                      $35
   Plumbing ground work                  $35
   Plumbing rough-in                     $35
   Plumbing finished                     $35
   HVAC rough-in                         $35
   HVAC finished                         $35
   Final                                 $35
   Re-inspection
(A re-inspection fee will be charged per
each failed inspection. No further          $50
inspections will be made to the property/
project prior to payment of fee.)
   * Electric permit inspected by State of Nebraska Electrical Inspector. With
inspection fee paid directly to inspector per inspector fee schedule
New Construction, Remodel or Repair Valuations per Square Foot
   Per square foot of main floor (new)   $75
   Per square foot of main floor (remodel$50
   Per square foot of finished basement  $37.50
(new)
   Per square foot of finished basement  $20
(remodel)
   Per square foot of unfinished basement$22.50
   Per square foot of garage             $25.50
   Per square foot of carport            $10
   Per square foot of agriculture buildin$20
   Per square foot of deck/patio         $15
   Per square foot of covered porch      $20
   *For a permit for new residential building, $40 plus $3 per $1,000 of
estimated value of the building in excess of $30,000.
*lf a building permit is issued for new construction or remodeling projects
plumbing and mechanical permits will be issued accordingly.
*For a permit for remodeling of any other construction, $45 plus $4 per thousand
of estimated value/ construction cost of the improvement in excess of $1,000.
Commercial Construction
For a permit for commercial buildings, $100 plus $5 per $1,000 of the estimated
value of the building in excess of $1,000. An hourly fee of $40 will be charged
per plan review.
Commercial construction minimum valuations
(Prices may increase depending on construction enhancements and construction
costs)
   Apartment houses                      $36.50/sq. ft.
   Auditoriums                           $57.00/sq. ft.
   Banks                                 $84.00/sq. ft.
   Bowling alleys                        $30.00/sq. ft.
   Churches                              $57.00/sq. ft.
   Nursing homes                         $65.50/sq. ft.
   Hospitals                             $103.00/sq. ft.
   Hotels and motels                     $60.00/sq. ft.
   Industrial plants                     $30.00/sq. ft.
   Medical offices                       $69.50/sq. ft.
   Offices                               $54.50/sq. ft.
   Restaurants                           $68.50/sq. ft.
   Schools                               $58.00/sq. ft.
   Service stations                      $48.00/sq. ft.
   Stores                                $38.00/sq. ft.
   Warehouse                             $22.00/sq. ft.
                                            Inspection by State of Nebraska
   Electrical permit                     Electrical Inspector with inspection
                                            fee paid directly to inspector per
                                            inspector's fee schedule
   Electrical permits required for all electrical projects. State license
required for all electrical permits. Exception when electrical work is being done
by individual who owns home, no license required.
   Plumbing permit                       $80
   Mechanical permit                  $80 (HVAC/gas piping)
   License required for all specialized fields
Other Building Permit Fees
   Accessory building placement          $45
   Demolition permit                     $25
   Fence (all fences)                    $45
   Sign permit                           $45
   Sign permit with footings             $70
   Moving building (200 sq. ft. or less) $25
   Moving building (>200 sq. ft.)        $100
 
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 521, 4/2/85; 552, 3/8/88; 554, 5/3/88; 623, 10/5/93; 660,
4/2/96; 716, 9/4/01; 744, 11/4/03; 749, 12/2/03; 777, 2/7/06; 798, 11/6/07;
840, 4/5/11; 876, /13; 905, 5/3/16; 905, 11/7/17; 949, 6/2/20; 972, 8/1/23;
982, 11/5/24)
§ 9-206 BUILDING PERMITS; FIREPLACES AND WOOD BURNING STOVES.
   The installation, erection, construction, repair, enlargement, or relocation
of any fireplace or wood burning stove, within any building structure within
the zoning jurisdiction of the Municipality, shall require a building permit as
prescribed in section 9-201 of the Municipal Code, and in addition to the
information therein required, the applicant shall also provide the following:
   The manufacturer of such fireplace or wood burning stove; the model number;
the physical dimensions of the fireplace or stove; the type of construction of
chimney, and if commercially marketed, the name of its manufacturer and model
numbers; drawings of the location of the fireplace or wood burning stove and
chimney; a copy of the manufacturer's specifications for installation of said
equipment; together with such other information as shall be prescribed on said
permit application.
   All installations, work and materials supplied pursuant to said building
permit, shall be done in conformity with Chapter 37 of the Uniform Building
Code 1973 Edition and related publications, as from time to time amended, and
shall be subject to inspection by the Building Inspector prior to the use of
such fireplace, wood burning stove or chimney.
   Clearance to all combustible services of said wood burning stoves,
fireplaces, chimneys and accompanying equipment shall be according to
manufacturer's specifications, unless they differ from the National Fire
Protection Association Publication (HS10) or amendments thereto, in which event
the more restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. No. 471, 6/17/80)
§ 9-207 POLE BUILDINGS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall construct or permit to be constructed within the residential
area of the Municipality, or within the Municipal zoning jurisdiction, a pole
or utility shed or similar structure which is constructed upon a pole frame
unless:
      (a)   If within an R1 or R2 zone, said structure is constructed upon a
frost depth 8" wide foundation wall around the perimeter of the building and
has a 4" minimum concrete floor slab inside the structure; with a 30 PSF wind
load on side walls and 30 PSF live load on roof, 720 square foot maximum, 10' -
0" eave height max. shall be minimum construction standards. Roof slope will be
considered at the time of building permit application. (Ord. No. 725, 7/2/02)
§ 9-208 PENALTIES FOR CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A BUILDING PERMIT AND FAILURE TO
COMPLY WITH A CEASE AND DESIST ORDER TO CEASE CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT BUILDING
PERMIT.
   No person shall construct or permit to be constructed within the
Municipality or the zoning jurisdiction thereof, any building or other
improvement for which a building permit is required by the Municipal Code
without first obtaining approved building permit. Any person who shall violate
or refuse to comply with Chapter 9 of the building code by failing to obtain an
approved building permit prior to commencement of construction upon a building
or other improvement for which a building permit is required, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in the
amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a first offense violation
thereof; shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second
offense violation thereof; and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third
offense violation thereof. In addition thereto any person shall continue
construction of a building or other improvement for which a building permit is
required without first obtaining an approved building permit in violation of a
cease and desist order issued by the Building Inspector or Municipal Police,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense in addition to the penalty for failure to
obtain a building permit. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply with a cease
and desist order. (Ord. No. 886, 12/2/14)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING CODE
§ 9-301 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Building Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International
Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the Building Code for the City of
Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for regulating and governing all new
construction, except one- and two-family dwellings; by providing standards for
supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures in the City of Milford,
Nebraska and its zoning jurisdiction; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor, as fully as if set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division
(B) below.
   (B)   The following section of the International Building Code, 2012
Edition, is hereby revised as follows:
      IBC Section 113.1 is amended to read:
      In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made by
the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 76-397, 1/20/76; 475, 5/5/81; 502, 10/4/83; 572, 5/1/90;
767, 8/2/05; 847, 10/4/11; 917, 11/7/17)
§ 9-302 EXISTING BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Existing Building Code, 2012 edition, as published by the
International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the Existing Building
Code for the City of Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for regulating and
governing the condition and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing standards for supplied utilities and facilities and
other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are
safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures in the City of Milford, Nebraska and its zoning
jurisdiction; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor, as fully as if set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following section is hereby revised as follows:
      Section R112.1 is amended to read:
      In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made by
the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. No. 766, 8/2/05) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 853, 10/4/11; 919, 11/7/17)
§ 9-303 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
      Section 101.1. Insert: The City of Milford, Nebraska.
      Section 103.5. Insert: Fee Schedule.
(Ord. No. 951, 9/9/20)
ARTICLE 4: PLUMBING CODE
§ 9-401 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Plumbing Code, 2012 edition, and appendix Chapters, as published
by the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code
of the City of Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for regulating and governing
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of plumbing systems in the City of Milford and its zoning
jurisdiction; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Plumbing Code on file in the office of the City of
Milford, Nebraska are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set forth in this section, with additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following section is hereby revised as follows:
      Section 109.1 is amended to read:
      In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made by
the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 769, 8/2/05; 849, 10/4/11; 922, 11/7/17)
§ 9-402 PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   For purposes of this section, lead free shall mean:
   1)    Solders and flux - not more than two-tenths (.2%) percent lead, and
   2)    Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than eight (8%) percent lead.
(Ref. 71-5301 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1988-558, 10/4/88)
ARTICLE 5: ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 9-501 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and fire-proof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in
the installation of electrical wiring and appliances shall be as found in the
National Electrical Code, 2005 Edition (NFPA-70), standard of the National
Board of Fire Underwriters, as recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association and approved by the American Standards Association, and the most
current version thereof which is from time to time adopted as the Electrical
Code of the State of Nebraska, is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for
the installation of all electrical apparatus, wiring, devices and equipment
within the Municipality and its zoning jurisdiction, except as otherwise
provided in this Article, and the same is made a part of this Article as fully
and to the same extent as if copied herein in full. One copy of the Electrical
Code is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Electrical Code
shall be controlling through the Municipality and throughout its zoning
jurisdiction. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 722, 3/12/02; 779, 6/6/06)
§ 9-502 ARC FAULT INTERRUPTERS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 735, 3/4/03)
§ 9-503 ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER SYSTEM; FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The City of Milford a municipal corporation, hereby grants unto the
Nebraska Public Power District, its successors and assigns the non-exclusive
right and franchise for a period of twenty-five (25) years to erect, operate
and maintain within said City of Milford an electric light and power system,
and the right to construct, operate and maintain poles, conduits, wires and
other necessary equipment, in, over, across or under the streets, alleys and
public places in said City of Milford for the purpose of supplying electric
energy to said City of Milford and its inhabitants, or to other cities,
villages and communities and their inhabitants, or to others connected or to be
connected to said system.
   (B)   Nebraska Public Power District shall have the authority to trim trees
upon and overhanging the streets, alleys and public places of the City of
Milford so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with
or endangering said electric light and power system.
   (C)   Nebraska Public Power District is hereby authorized to establish,
charge, collect and receive a reasonable compensation for electricity furnished
to the City of Milford and its inhabitants, and establish terms and conditions
for such service in accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 70, as
amended, empowering a public power district to set and collect reasonable
charges for its services and to establish rules and regulations for the conduct
of its business and affairs.
(Ord. No. 785, 11/7/06) (Amended by Ord. No. 931, 9/4/18)
ARTICLE 6: WATER WELLS
§ 9-601 PLUMBING; WELL PERMIT. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or construct a
well within the corporate limits of the City without first having obtained a
permit therefor from the City Council. The applications for private well
permits shall be obtained from the office of the City Clerk and shall set
forth:
   (1)   Location of proposed well in conjunction with sewers. No well shall be
located within twenty-five (25) feet of any sewer line, private or public. No
well shall be located within fifty (50) feet of any septic tank or within one
hundred (100) feet of any disposal field.
   (2)   Location of proposed well in conjunction with water lines. No well
shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet of any water line, private or
public.
   (3)   Minimum clearance from property line of five (5) feet. No well shall
be installed in any easement on the property.
   (4)   Depth of proposed well.
   (5)   Size and type of casing to be installed.
   (6)   Pumping equipment to be used.
   (7)   Name and address of well driller.
   (8)   Assurance that no water from the private well shall be used for
domestic purposes, but shall be used solely for lawn irrigation and garden
irrigation or for water used in heating or cooling equipment. Any permits
required by the State of Nebraska and the Upper Big Blue Natural Resource
District must be submitted prior to issuance of a permit by the City. Disposal
of water for heating or cooling shall be through re-injection back to the same
level of aquifer, except that during the spring, summer and fall months such
water used for heating or cooling may be used for irrigation of lawn or garden.
No water from the private well shall be allowed to run off into a City storm
water sewer. In addition, assurance shall be given that water from the private
well shall be used exclusively on the property the well is located.
   (9)   Assurance that the property owner will install and maintain proper
backflow prevention devices as approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (10)   Assurance that a well log will be recorded by the well driller and
filed with the City Clerk prior to use of said well.
   (11)   Assurance that the Utilities Superintendent may inspect said well
during construction and any time thereafter: and that at least twenty-four (24)
hours prior to well drilling, the well driller shall contact the Utilities
Superintendent for final site approval. Such application shall be accompanied
with an application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) which shall cover the
inspections, no part of which is refunded if the application is denied. (Ord.
No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-602 PLUMBING; WELL DRILLERS REGISTRATION BOND AND INSURANCE; NOTIFICATION
OF UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. 
   (1)   Every well driller, before doing business in the City, shall be
registered with the City. Registration forms may be obtained from the City
Building Inspector. A registration fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year
shall be required. Each well driller shall obtain and file with the City a
personal surety bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) signed by
one (1) or more sufficient sureties or a bond in a like amount of some approved
corporate surety company doing business in the City to be approved by the Mayor
and Council, conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless
the City of and from all accidents, damages, liability, claims, judgment, costs
or expense caused by any negligence arising from a failure to protect such
drilling work, or by any unfinished, unskilled and inadequate work done in
pursuance of his registration to drill wells, or using out of furnishing
defective material or from failure to execute and perform any work during the
period of such driller's registration. The obligee of said bond shall be the
City and action may be maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of its
conditions for a period of one (1) year after the completion of any drilling
work. All bonds tendered by drillers shall be approved in writing, as to form
and substance by the City Attorney. The applicant shall also provide a
Certificate of Liability coverage with bodily injury coverage in the sum of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for the injury or death of any number
of persons in any one (1) accident exclusive of insurance defense costs, and
with a coverage of the sum of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
property damage in any one (1) accident, exclusive of insurance defense costs.
   (2)   Well drillers shall contact the Water/Wastewater Superintendent at
least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of commencement of any work to advise
him of the location and time drilling is to take place in order that final site
approval may be given. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-603 PLUMBING; TEMPORARY WELL PERMIT.
   The City may grant a temporary well permit when an emergency is determined
to exist for purposes other than lawn and garden irrigation. In granting said
permit, the City may establish conditions under which said well is operated,
including the purposes therefore, its location, the period of time during which
such well shall be operated, conditions for the closing and capping of such
well and such safety requirements as the Council may provide and such other
conditions as may protect the health and welfare of the City. The application
for a temporary well permit shall give the same information as required for a
regular well permit and shall be accompanied with an application fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), no part of which shall be refunded if application is
denied. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-604 PLUMBING; ABANDONED PLUMBING WELLS.
   All abandoned wells shall be properly abandoned, closed up or destroyed in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Upper Big Blue Natural
Resources District and in accordance with the Nebraska Department of Health
Title 178 NAC 12 and all amendments thereto and amended editions and any
supplements thereto. Whenever the Water/Wastewater Superintendent shall find a
well which has been improperly abandoned and discontinued for use, it shall be
his/her duty to notify or inform the owner of the property on which such well
is located, in writing, that such well must be abandoned in accordance with
this Article within thirty (30) days of the time of service of such notice.
Upon failure of the owner of the property upon which said well is located to
comply with such order, the Water/Wastewater Superintendent shall cause the
well to be property abandoned, assessing the costs and expense to the property
and the property owner upon which such well is located. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-605 PLUMBING; WELLS; CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No cross connections shall be allowed from a private well to or from the
City water system. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the
property to give the Utilities Superintendent free access to the property at
reasonable times for the purpose of making a cross connection inspection. If
the Utilities Superintendent is denied entry to make said inspection, a
judicial order for entry into and onto the property shall be obtained. If the
Utilities Superintendent of the City finds that a cross connection exists, then
he shall order the use of the private well to be permanently discontinued. The
owner, tenant and lessee shall be liable severally and jointly for all damages
to the City water system and users of the City water system caused by such
cross connection. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-606 PLUMBING; WELLS; SPECIFICATIONS: DISCONTINUANCE BY COUNCIL.
   The City shall have power and authority to refuse to issue well drilling
permits if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is not sound,
or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or if it appears that
such well may endanger, impair or in any way interfere with the Municipal
Public Water System of the City. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-607 PLUMBING; WELLS; NEBRASKA MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The Minimum Standards for a Private Water Well in Nebraska, 1972 Edition,
are hereby adopted and such minimum standards, including all subsequent
editions, amendments, supplements or appendices thereto are made a part of this
Article as fully as if set forth at length herein. One (1) copy of said Minimum
Standards shall be placed on file with the City Clerk, and any and all
subsequent additions, amendments or supplements or appendices thereto shall be
placed on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-608 PLUMBING; WELLS; SIGN.
   All spigots or other connections to or from a private well shall have a sign
thereon stating that water is not safe for drinking, and said sign shall be
continually maintained visibly upon said private well. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-609 PLUMBING; WELLS: RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or the occupant of the property upon which a private well is
located shall be responsible jointly and severally for all water usage from
said private well. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-610 PLUMBING; WELLS: DISCONTINUANCE.
   The City Council may order the discontinuance of the use of a private well
or wells where it has reason and cause to believe that the public health is
endangered, and for that purpose may revoke and cancel any well permit or
renewal of such permit after notice and hearing. Such permit or renewal thereof
may be revoked and canceled by the City upon violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this Article by the permittee or his successor in the interest to
the property upon which such well is located or its occupants, in and to any
private well after notice and hearing. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-611 PLUMBING; WELLS; CONSENT BY PERMITTEE, ETC.
   The granting of a well permit or the renewal thereof to a permittee or its
successors in interest shall constitute consent and shall grant consent by the
permittee or any tenant thereon to and for the Water/Wastewater Superintendent
of the City or his agents or employees to enter upon the premises upon which
the well is located in order to take any action required by the Water/
Wastewater Superintendent by this Article and to determine whether or not there
is any violation of this Article by said well or the use thereof. (Ord. No.
829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-612 PLUMBING; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
provisions of sections 9-601 through 9-611 shall be subject to the penalty
provided in Section
12-101 of the Municipal Code. (Ord. No. 829, 11/3/09)
§ 9-613 WATER WELLS; WELLHEAD PROTECTION; AREAS DELINEATED; PROGRAM.
   (1)   The City of Milford, Nebraska hereby recognized the State Wellhead
Protection Program, mandated by the Environmental Protection Agency and
administered by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality.
   (2) The City of Milford, Nebraska, hereby delineates and established the
following "Wellhead Protection Areas" (WHPA'S) through which human-caused
contamination could be reasonably expected to be drawn into the Municipal water
supply, the outer limits of which are the 20-year-time-of-travel threshold, to-
wit:
      (a) Well 1988-1 (Welch Park), 2,600 foot radius, or 5,200 foot diameter
around well.
      (b) Well 1988-2 (South Park), 3,300 foot radius or 6,600 foot diameter
around well.
      (c) Well 1964-3, 2,000 foot radius, or 4,000 foot diameter around well.
      (d) Well 1973-4, 2,000 foot radius, or a 4,000 foot diameter around well.
   (3) The Wellhead Protection Areas are graphically set forth on the WHPA map
attached hereto and incorporated by reference.
   (4) The City of Milford shall develop and implement a Wellhead Protection
Program in conjunction and cooperation with the Nebraska Wellhead Protection
Program, with other governmental bodies participating herein. (Ord. No. 1992-
605, 11/3/92)
ARTICLE 7: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 9-701 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, and appendix Chapters, as
published by the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of the City of Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached
one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single family dwellings (townhouses)
nor more than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress in the
municipal zoning jurisdiction; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Residential Code on file in the office
of the City of Milford, Nebraska are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set forth in this section, with additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
      Section R313 is deleted entirely. The residential fire sprinkler mandate
is excluded, and is not hereby adopted by this section.
      Section R112.1 is amended to read:
      In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made by
the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. No. 724, 4/2/02) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 768, 8/2/05; 848, 10/4/11; 918,
11/7/17)
ARTICLE 8: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
§ 9-801 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Mechanical Code, 2012 edition, and appendix Chapters, as
published by the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the
Mechanical Code of the City of Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for
regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems in the City of Milford
and its zoning jurisdiction; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file in the office
of the City of Milford, Nebraska are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set forth in this section, with additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following section is hereby revised as follows:
      Section 109.1 is amended to read:
      In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made by
the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. No. 770, 8/2/05) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 851, 10/4/11; 921, 11/7/17)
ARTICLE 9: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
§ 9-901 ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
Nebraska Energy Code a/k/a IECC 2009/ASHRAE 90.1-2007, be and is hereby adopted
as the Energy Conservation Code of the City of Milford, in the State of
Nebraska, for regulating and governing energy efficient building envelopes and
installation of energy efficient mechanical, lighting and power systems as
herein provided; providing for the issue of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Nebraska Energy Code on file in the office of the
City of Milford, Nebraska, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as fully as if set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised: None. (Ord. No. 765, 8/2/
05) (Amended by Ord. No. 852, 10/4/11)
ARTICLE 10: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
§ 9-1001 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Milford, Seward County, Nebraska, designated as the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, be and is hereby adopted as the Fuel
Gas Code of the City of Milford, in the State of Nebraska, for regulating the
design and installation of fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances through
requirements that emphasize performance; providing for the issue of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said International Fuel Gas Code on file in
the office of the City of Milford, Nebraska, are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part hereof, as fully as if set out in this ordinance, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in division
(B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      That section stating that appeals will go to an appeals board is amended
to read: In order to hear and decide appeals of orders or determinations made
by the building official relative to the application and interpretation of this
code, all appeals and requests for interpretation shall be directed to the
Board of Adjustments.
(Ord. No. 850, 10/4/11) (Amended by Ord. No. 920, 11/7/17)
ARTICLE 11: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-1101 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 9-1102 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Article
         
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
2.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
         
3.   AMUSEMENTS
         
4.   BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
         
5.   OCCUPATION TAXES
         
6.   MICROWAVE AND SATELLITE DISHES
         
7.   CABLE TELEVISION
         
8.   PENAL PROVISION
         
9.   LOTTERY
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 10-101 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska. (Ref.
53-103 RS Neb.)
§ 10-102 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-103 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain,
manage, or hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling
at retail any alcoholic liquor within one hundred and fifty (150) feet of any
church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons or veterans,
their wives or children; Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any
location within such distance when the said establishment has been licensed by
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission at least two (2) years, and to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where
the selling of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if
the said hotel, club, or restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May
24, 1935.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premise within three hundred (300) feet from the campus of any college
within the Municipality.
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to section 53-124.15 RS Neb. (Ref. 53-177
RS Neb.)
§ 10-104 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from such premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premise, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his family, or personal guests. (Ref. 53-178 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-105 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license
to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§ 10-106 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premise is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony; a person who has never been associated with, or kept, a
house of ill fame; a person who has never been convicted of, or pleaded guilty
to, a crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality; a person who has
never had a liquor license revoked for cause; or a person who has not acquired
a beneficial interest in more than two (2) alcoholic beverage retail
establishments since March 4, 1963. (Ref. 53-124.03, 53-125 RS Neb.)
§ 10-107 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified mail. The Governing
Body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and
report its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission within forty-five (45) days of
receipt from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission. The Governing Body may
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause
to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony,
and to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the Governing Body may
authorize its agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its
behalf. The Governing Body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing
upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
The Governing Body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held,
and at which time the Governing Body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in, the Municipality one (1) time not less than seven (7), nor more than
fourteen (14), days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include,
but not be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence
before the local Governing Body in support of or in protest against the
issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing
shall be held not more than forty-five (45) days after the receipt of notice
from the Commission. After such hearing, the Governing Body shall cause to be
spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of such license. The Municipal Clerk
shall thereupon mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a
copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice.
(Ref. 53-131, 53-134 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 1988-560, 10/4/88; 570, 12/
5/89)
§ 10-108 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail liquor licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. The Municipal
Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, between January tenth (10th) and
January thirtieth (30th) of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in, or of general circulation in the Municipality, one (1) time, a
notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each
retail liquor and beer license within the Municipality; provided, Class C
license renewal notices shall be published between the dates of July tenth
(10th) and July thirtieth (30th) of each year. The Municipal Clerk shall then
file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice on or before
February tenth (10th) of each year or August tenth (10th) of each year for
Class C licenses. In the event that written protests are filed by three (3) or
more residents of the Municipality against said license renewal, the Municipal
Clerk shall deliver the protests to the Governing Body who shall thereupon
proceed to notify the Commission that they are to require the said licensee to
submit an application. (Ref. 53-135, 53-135.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
463, 10/20/79)
§ 10-109 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Governing Body shall have the power and duties in respect to licensed
retailers of alcoholic beverages to revoke for cause retail licenses to sell
alcoholic liquors issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction
subject to the right of appeal to the Commission; to enter or to authorize any
law enforcement officer to enter at any time upon any premise licensed by the
State of Nebraska to determine whether any of the provisions of the Municipal
laws, or the laws of the State of Nebraska, are being violated; to receive
signed complaints from any citizens within its jurisdiction that any of the
Municipal laws, or laws of the State of Nebraska, are being violated, and to
act upon such complaints in the manner herein provided; and to collect for the
benefit of the State of Nebraska and the Municipality all license fees and
occupation taxes as prescribed by law. (Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.)
§ 10-110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code Section or Nebraska
Statute. (Ref. 53-1,101 RS Neb.)
§ 10-111 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him personally. (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-112 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CLEAR VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels, and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of such licensed premise
from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. All licensed premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white
lights to insure the clear visibility into said establishment. Any licensee who
willfully violates the provisions of this Section shall be subject to a
revocation of his license by the Municipality as provided herein. (Ref. 53-167
RS Neb.)
§ 10-113 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, or make a gift of,
any alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor,
or other person who is mentally, physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.)
§ 10-114 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any bona fide club from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members,
or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said members or guests
in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided further, nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by bona fide guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests. (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.)
§ 10-115 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premise of such
licensee. (Ref. 53-174 RS Neb.)
§ 10-116 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package. (Ref. 53-184 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-117 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to
sell any alcoholic beverages within the Municipality except during the hours
provided herein:
HOURS OF SALE
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular Days
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   10:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
Beer and Wine
   Secular Days
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than fifteen (15) minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed premises
from being open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section. (Ref. 53-179
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 506A, 6/5/84; 696, 10/5/99; 864, 10/2/12; 974,
9/5/23)
§ 10-118 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license. (Ref. 53-118
RS Neb.)
§ 10-119 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors,
including beer, to said licensee's customers. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-120 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public streets, alleys, parking areas, roads,
highways, or inside vehicles while upon the public streets, alleys, parking
areas, roads, or highways or upon any property owned by the Municipality or
other governmental subdivision thereof, unless authorized by separate
resolution of the City Council; provided, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the State of Nebraska. (Amended
by Ord. No. 702, 3/14/00)
§ 10-121 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act; Providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests,
nor prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the
maker, his family and his guests; provided further, that nothing herein shall
prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his profession, or any
hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased persons, from
possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients of such
hospital or other institution; provided further, that any drug store employing
a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in the compounding
of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and provided further, that the
possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any
church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony
conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this Section. (Ref. 53-102,
53-175 RS Neb.)
§ 10-122 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic violations
may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the officer
dangerous to himself, herself, or to others, or who is otherwise incapacitated,
from public property. Such removal shall be in compliance with Section 53-1,121
RS Neb. (Ord. No. 461, 10/2/79)
§ 10-123 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   The City Council adopts the following licensing standards and criteria for
consideration by the Liquor Control Commission of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, in
accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, Neb. Rev. Stat. §53-132(3)(a)
and Section 7 of Legislative Bill 911, Eighty Ninth Legislature, Second
Session, 1986:
   1.   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area.
   2.    Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking.
   3.    Zoning restrictions.
   4.    Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises.
   5.    The existing population, and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served.
   6.    The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license, and the
distance and times of travel to such licenses.
   7.    The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth.
   8.    Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term "applicants" as used herein is synonymous with "license." (Ref. 53-134 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 536, 9/2/86)
ARTICLE 2: SALES AND ADVERTISING
§ 10-201 PEDDLERS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler as
hereinafter defined within the corporate limits of the City without first
having obtained a permit thereof as herein provided.
(Amended by Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-202 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person traveling by foot, automobile, motor truck, vehicle, or
other type of conveyance, from house to house, from residence to residence, or
from dwelling to dwelling, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares,
meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, candies, magazines, or other products or
merchandise or provisions of whatsoever nature, offering and exposing the same
for sale, or making sales and delivering such articles to purchasers, or
offering to furnish or perform services.
      (1)   Includes any person traveling either by foot, automobile, motor
truck, vehicle or other type of conveyance, from house to house, from residence
to residence or from dwelling to dwelling, taking or attempting to take orders
for sale of goods, wares, meats fish, vegetables, fruits, candies, magazines,
books, or other products or merchandise of whatsoever nature for future
delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not such person has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of
such sale, whether or not such person is collecting advance payment on such
sales.
      (2)   Includes hawker, huckster, canvasser, and solicitor. (Ord. No. 758,
8/19/04)
§ 10-202.01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for permits under this chapter shall be filed with the City
Clerk on a Form to be furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give the
following information:
      (A)   Name, date of birth, and description of applicant;
      (B)   Address;
      (C)   Brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be
sold or services to be provided;
      (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
the documents verifying such employment;
      (E)   If a vehicle is to be used, description of the same, together with
the license number;
      (F)   The length of time (not to exceed one year) for which the right to
do business as a peddler is desired;
      (G)   Copy of health department permit (if applicable);
      (H)   Copy of State of Nebraska sales tax permit (if applicable). (Ord.
No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-202.02 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application as described, the original shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, who shall cause an investigation of the
statements contained within the application to be made to determine if the same
be true and correct.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation the Chief of Police finds that
the statements within the application are materially untrue or incorrect, or if
it is found that the applicant has been convicted within the past ten (10)
years of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude, the Chief of Police
shall disapprove such application in writing and provide the reasons for the
same, and return said application to the City Clerk, who shall notify the
applicant that the application is disapproved and that no permit will be
issued.
   (C)   If, as such a result of such investigation, the statements contained
in the application are found to be true and correct, and the applicant has not
been convicted within the past ten (10) years of any felony or any crime
involving moral turpitude, the Chief of Police shall approve the application in
writing and shall return the said application to the City Clerk for issuance of
the permit.
   (D)   The permit shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer
and show the name and address of the permittee and the kind of goods to be sold
there under, or services to be furnished or performed, the date of issuance,
and the length of time the same shall be operative. The City Clerk shall keep a
permanent record of all permits issued. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-202.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT.
   No permit shall be issued to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted of a felony, or a crime involving moral
turpitude within the ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of the
filing of such application with the City Clerk;
   (B)   Who is under the age of sixteen (16) years unless the applicant first
obtains an employment certificate as required by state law; or
   (C)   Whose permit has been previously revoked. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-203 TRANSFER.
   Permits issued under this Chapter shall be nontransferable and no such
permit shall be issued at any time by any person other than to the one to whom
it was issued. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-204 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE; RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of any Police Officer of the City to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter against any person found to violating the same. The
Chief of Police shall report to the City Clerk all convictions for violations
of this Article, and the City Clerk shall maintain a record for each permit
issued and record reports of violations therein. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-205 PEDDLING HOURS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to make door-to-door in-person calls as a peddler to
prospective customers before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on any day of the
week unless requested to do so by the prospective customer. (Ord. No. 758, 8/
19/04)
§ 10-206 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT.
   Peddlers shall exhibit their permits at the request of any Police Officer,
or at the request of they occupant of any house, residence or dwelling, which
such peddler has approached in search of a prospective customer. (Ord. No. 758,
8/19/04)
§ 10-207 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued under the provisions of this Article shall expire on the
date specified in the permit, but in no event later than one (1) year after
issuance of the same. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-208 PERMIT FEE.
   (1)   Prior to the issuance of a peddler's permit, the applicant shall pay a
fee based upon the duration of the permit. That fee shall be:
      One week    $15.00
      One month   $30.00
      Six months   $50.00
      One year   $75.00
   (2)   All such fees collected shall be delivered to the City Clerk for
deposit in the City's General Fund. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-209 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this Article may be revoked for any
of the following causes:
   (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application.
   (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the permittee's business as a peddler.
   (3)   Any violation of this Article; or
   (4)   Conviction of any felony or violation of any municipal ordinance,
state or federal law involving moral turpitude. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-210 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this Article shall not apply to officers or employees of
the City of Milford or to officers or employees of county, state or federal
governments or any subdivision thereof when on official business; or any person
selling or offering for sale merchandise or services in conjunction with a
solicitation by a non-profit or charitable organization; or persons having
established place of residency in the county; or established routes of
business. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
§ 10-211 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Article shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00). Each day that a violation of this Article continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such. The penalty
provided in this section shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation of the permit. (Ord. No. 758, 8/19/04)
ARTICLE 3: AMUSEMENTS
§ 10-301 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   BOWLING; DEFINED. The term "bowling alley" shall be construed to mean any
room, building, or structure in which a game consisting of rolling a heavy ball
down a wooden lane in an attempt to knock over wooden pins set upright at the
opposite end of the lane is played whether, or not, it is in connection with
any other business.
§ 10-302 BOWLING; REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, or operate
any bowling alley for profit without having first obtained a license from the
Municipality. Any person desiring a license to operate, maintain, or own a
bowling alley shall file a written application with the Municipal Clerk. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies
thereof, as the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or
reject the application. Upon determination that the granting of the license
would be beneficial to the Municipality, the Governing Body shall immediately
direct the Municipal Clerk to issue the said license to the applicant upon the
payment of a fee set by resolution of the Governing Body. Said license shall be
subject to revocation at any time for good and sufficient cause by the
Governing Body upon the issuance of proper notice and a hearing if the licensee
should make such a request. Any person or persons so licensed shall be subject
to any bond, fees, or other rules and regulations as may be set by resolution
of the Governing Body for the benefit of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-120, 17-525
RS Neb.)
§ 10-303 BINGO; REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the Municipality in accordance with
all laws of the Municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the Governing Body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the Governing Body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of a fee set by
resolution of the Governing Body. Said license shall be subject to revocation
at any time for good cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be
subject to any other fees, rules, and regulations which the Governing Body may
designate. All permits so issued will automatically expire on March thirty-one
(31), following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless
otherwise prescribed shall be in the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars. Said fee
shall be credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any
place where a game of bingo is conducted. (Ref. 9-236 RS Neb.)
§ 10-304 BINGO; TAX.
   A tax of five (5%) percent of the gross receipts of each licensed
association deriving revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and
levied against each such association and payable on or before the thirtieth
(30th) day of the immediately succeeding calendar quarter to the Municipal
Treasurer. Such tax shall be credited to the Municipal General Fund. (Ref. 9-
239 RS Neb.)
§ 10-305 BINGO; QUARTERLY REPORT.
   Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written
quarterly report to the Municipal Clerk covering the preceding calendar quarter
on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of the immediately succeeding calendar
quarter. (Ref. 9-239 RS Neb.)
§ 10-306 BINGO; INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable State statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this Article as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any State statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the Municipality as well as against the State. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the Municipality for each of such
offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 9-201 through 9-265 RS Neb.)
§ 10-307 POOL AND BILLIARDS; DEFINITION.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 689, 2/2/99)
§ 10-308 POOL AND BILLIARDS; REGULATION.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 689, 2/2/99)
ARTICLE 4: BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
§ 10-401 TRAILERS; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   TRAILER COACH OR TRAILER. The term "Trailer Coach" or "Trailer" means any
vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in such manner as will permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct
of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or use as a selling or
advertising device), and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and
used as a conveyance on highways or Municipal streets, propelled or drawn by
its own or other motive power, excepting a device used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH. The term "dependent trailer coach" shall mean a
trailer coach which does not have a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH. The term "independent trailer coach" shall mean a
trailer coach that has a toilet and a bathtub or shower.
   TRAILER COACH SPACE. The term "trailer coach space" shall mean a plot of
ground within a trailer court designated for the accommodation of one (1)
trailer coach.
   SERVICE BUILDING. The term "service building" shall mean a building housing
toilet facilities for men and women, with slop-water closet and laundry
facilities, and with separate bath or shower accommodations.
   TRAILER CAMP. The term "Trailer Camp" means any park, trailer park, trailer
court, court, camp, site, lot, parcel, or tract of land designed, maintained or
intended for the purpose of supplying a location or accommodations for any
trailer coach or trailer coaches and upon which any trailer coach or trailer
coaches are parked and shall include all buildings used or intended for use as
part of the equipment thereof whether a charge is made for the use of the
trailer camp and its facilities or not. Trailer Camp shall not include
automobile or trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are parked for
purposes of inspection and sale.
   STREET. The term "street" shall mean any public street, avenue, road, alley,
or highway, located in the Municipality and established for the use of
vehicles, the boundaries of which are hereby determined to be the outer
boundaries of said street, avenue, road, or alley, as platted and dedicated as
shown by the official records of the Municipality and the County as shown on
the official records in the office of the County Clerk as official streets,
avenues, roads, or alleys within the corporate limits.
   FIRE PREVENTION AUTHORITY. The term "Fire Prevention Authority" shall mean
the Volunteer Fire Department.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The term "Board of Health" shall be the Board of Health as
created in Chapter 2, Article 2 of this Code.
   PERMIT. The term "permit" shall mean a written permit issued by the
Municipal Clerk and approved by the Health Officer, permitting the trailer
court to operate under this Code and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER, AND CONVERTED BUS. The terms "travel trailer,"
"camper," and "converted bus," shall mean any portable structure or vehicle
supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited
or temporary time or basically designed for travel or camping purposes,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power.
   TRAILER SPACE. The term "trailer space" shall mean a plot of ground within a
trailer court, designated for the accommodation of one (1) trailer coach.
§ 10-402 TRAILERS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, operate, or
alter any trailer camp within the corporate limits unless he holds a valid
permit, in the name of such person for the specific trailer camp. All
applications for permits shall be made to the County Clerk, who shall issue a
permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this Code relative
to trailer camps. No permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such a
permit shall give notice in writing to the Municipal Clerk within seventy-two
(72) hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of
any interest in or control of any trailer court. Such notice shall include the
name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such
trailer court. Applications for permits shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and accompanied by an Affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the application, and shall contain the following:
   1.    The name and address of the applicant.
   2.    The location and legal description of the trailer court.
   3.   A complete plan of the trailer court, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Code and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   4.   Such further information as may be requested by the Board of Health to
enable him to determine that the proposed trailer court will comply with legal
requirements.
§ 10-403 TRAILERS; MAINTENANCE.
   All trailer camps shall be maintained under the management and supervision
of the owner or person in control of the premise on which the same is located,
or of a duly authorized representative of such owner, who shall be personally
responsible for the maintenance of such trailer camp in accordance with all
sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the Municipality and the
State of Nebraska.
§ 10-404 TRAILERS; INSPECTIONS.
   All trailer camps shall be under the supervision of the Board of Health,
which Board shall make and provide for inspections of trailer camps at
reasonable times, and shall recommend to the Governing Body such additional
rules and regulations as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the
sanitation, safety, and proper maintenance of said trailer camps.
§ 10-405 TRAILERS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall be primarily liable for all utility
service bills charged against each trailer house and shall make monthly
remittances to the Municipality for such bills.
§ 10-406 TRAILERS; MANAGEMENT.
   In every trailer camp there shall be an office building in which shall be
located the office of the person in charge of said camp. A copy of the camp
license shall be posted therein and the camp register shall at all times be
kept in said office.
   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge, together
with the licensee to:
   1.    Keep at all times a register of all occupants of each trailer space
which shall be open at all times to inspection by officers of the Municipality
showing for all such occupants:
      a.    Names and addresses.
      b.    Dates of entrance and departure.
      c.    License numbers of all trailers and other towed automobiles.
      d.    States issuing such licenses.
   2.   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times.
   3.    Report to the Director of Health all cases of persons or animals
affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease.
   4.    Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants than
that which it is designated to accommodate.
§ 10-407 TRAILERS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to establish and maintain a trailer camp may be revoked by the
Governing Body for cause, at any time, for a violation of the provisions of
this Code or of the rules and regulations relating to trailers, or for any
other cause or conduct, reasonably deemed by the Governing Body as sufficient
cause of revocation of such permit. Before the revocation of such permit, the
Municipality shall cause to be served on the operator of such trailer camp, a
notice to appear and show cause on a specified day and at a specified time, why
his permit for his trailer camp should not be revoked. Such notice to show
cause may be served by mailing the same in the United States mails to the
address of the operator given in his application in such permit with sufficient
postage affixed thereto. The operator of the trailer camp involved shall be
given reasonable opportunity to be heard at the time fixed for his appearance
to show cause, and no permit for such trailer camp shall be revoked until the
operator involved has been heard at the designated time if he desires to be
heard.
§ 10-408 TRAILERS; PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   After the effective date hereof, except as otherwise provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a trailer or trailer coach within the corporate
limits for purposes of using said trailers as a dwelling or sleeping place for
one or more persons or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or
trade, or use as a selling or advertising device, except in a designated and
approved trailer camp for which a permit has been issued and is currently
valid.
§ 10-409 TRAILERS; PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer coach, travel
trailer, camper or converted bus on any official street, avenue, road, alley,
or highway within the corporate limits for a period of time in excess of
twenty-four (24) hours, and subject to any other and further prohibitions,
regulations, or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations as
any resolution of the Governing Body may provide relating thereto.
§ 10-410 TRAILERS; AUTHORIZED CAMP.
   Trailer camps shall be located on well-drained sites, and shall be so
located that drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such trailer
courts shall be in areas free from marshes, swamps, or other potential breeding
places for insects or rodents. The area of the trailer camp shall be large
enough to accommodate the following:
   1.    The designated number of trailer court spaces.
   2.    Necessary streets and roadways.
   3.    Parking areas for motor vehicles.
   4.    Service areas and playgrounds for trailer camps in which independent
trailer coaches only are parked.
   Each trailer space shall be clearly defined and shall contain a minimum of
one thousand (1,000) square feet. Each space shall be laid out in such a manner
that a minimum of twenty (20') feet of space exists between any two (2)
trailers or ten (10') feet between any trailer and any building; Provided, no
trailer shall be closer than two hundred (200') feet from any service building.
No trailers shall be less than ten (10') feet from any adjacent property of the
trailer court. Each trailer space shall abut on a driveway with unobstructed
access to a public street.
   It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than twenty-five (25') feet
from any street or highway right-of-way, or so that any part of such trailer
will obstruct any roadway or walkway.
   It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain while being
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes in a trailer camp unless a trailer
space is available.
   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer coach space. Each access road
shall be continuous, shall connect with a street or highway, and shall have a
minimum width of twenty-five (25') feet.
   Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. Such areas shall
have motor vehicle parking spaces in a number equal to or in excess of the
number of trailer coach spaces provided.
   Playground areas, when required, shall be provided, and shall be restricted
to such use. These areas shall be protected from the main highway and from
parking areas. A minimum of one hundred (100) square feet per coach space shall
be made available in one or more places for such playground areas.
§ 10-411 TRAILERS; ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   No permanent enclosed additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor become
a part of, any trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but such
skirting shall not attach the trailer permanently to the ground, provide a
harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
   The wheels of the trailer shall not be removed, except temporarily when
necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be placed under the frame of
the trailer to prevent movement on the springs while the trailer is parked and
occupied. Four (4) anchors shall be provided for each trailer coach space. Each
trailer shall be anchored as soon as possible after location on space.
§ 10-412 TRAILERS; WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe distribution
system connected directly with a Municipal water main, with supply outlets
located at every trailer space, shall be provided.
§ 10-413 TRAILERS; APPLICABILITY OF PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL, AND BUILDING CODES.
   All plumbing, electrical, building, and other work on or at any camp shall
be in accordance with the laws of the Municipality regulating such work.
§ 10-414 TRAILERS; SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   Each trailer court serving dependent trailer coaches shall be provided with
one (1) or more service buildings adequately equipped with flush-type fixtures.
No service building shall contain less than two (2) toilets for women, one (1)
toilet for males, one (1) lavatory and shower for each sex, one (1) urinal for
males, one (1) laundry tray, and one slop-water closet. Dependent trailer
coaches shall be parked not more than two hundred (200') feet from the service
building.
   Service buildings shall:
   A.   Be located fifteen (15') feet or more from any trailer coach space;
   B.   Be of permanent construction, and be adequately lighted;
   C.   Be of moisture-resistant material, to permit frequent washing and
cleaning;
   D.   Have sufficient toilet and laundry facilities, according to
requirements promulgated by the Health Officer, to serve adequately both males
and females;
   E.   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of seventy
(70) degrees Fahrenheit during cold weather, and to supply a minimum of three
(3) gallons of hot water per hour per coach space during time of peak demands;
   F.   Have all rooms well ventilated, with all openings effectively screened;
   G.   Have at least one (1) slop-water closet, supplied with not and cold
water, in a separate room.
§ 10-415 RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the Municipality to keep in a suitable, and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the Municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to
make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous
condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent
of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to
repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within forty-eight (48)
hours, neglect for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter shall be deemed, and
is hereby made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(Ref. 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, 75-414 RS Neb.)
§ 10-416 RAILROAD COMPANIES; LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad through the Municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the Governing Body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the said company. (Ref. 17-561 RS Neb.)
§ 10-417 RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the Municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than ten (10) minutes. (Ref. 17-552 RS Neb.)
§ 10-418 RAILROAD COMPANIES; DRAINAGE.
   When any drains, ditches, or culverts may be necessary for the escape of
water and the proper drainage of the territory on either side of any such
railroad track, the Council may by resolution call upon the proper railroad
company to construct or repair the said drain, ditch or culvert and place the
same in a proper condition for the escape of water or the proper drainage of
the territory on either side of the said railroads. A copy of every such
resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the railroad company, whose
duty it is to construct or keep in repair any such drain, ditch or culvert; and
for a failure or refusal to comply with any such resolution within seven (7)
days after the service thereof as aforesaid, such railroad company shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and if such resolution be not then complies
with within forty-eight (48) hours, every neglect of twenty-four (24) hours
thereafter shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 10-419 SLAUGHTERHOUSE, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any person desiring to conduct or maintain a slaughterhouse shall make
application in writing to the Governing Body stating therein, with precision,
the location, the size, the volume of stock to be handled, and any other
information which the Governing Body shall require concerning the proposed
slaughterhouse to assist them in determining whether or not to grant the
permit. If the Governing Body grants a permit to the said applicant, it shall
specify the exact location of the proposed slaughterhouse and the size thereof.
Upon receipt of said permit, the applicant may maintain and conduct a
slaughterhouse of the exact description found on the permit. If at any time the
Governing Body shall determine that the slaughterhouse has become a nuisance,
it shall notify the person or persons named on the permit to alter, repair, or
cease to operate the said slaughterhouse. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 10-420 FIREWORKS VENDOR; REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charges for the purpose of making a noise. Color wheels, toy cap
pistols and permissible caps may be sold at retail at all times; Provided, that
all other fireworks named may be sold only between June twenty-fourth (24th)
and July fifth (5th); Provided, that fireworks of any description are
permissible for purposes of public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the
Governing Body; and further provided that said vendor shall secure a license
each year prior to any such sales. Application shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the Municipality and requesting such
information and documents as the Governing Body may deem necessary as to
whether or not to grant said license. Upon the determination to grant the
license, the Governing Body shall direct the Municipal Clerk to collect a fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and issue said license. Any license so issued
may be revoked at any time by the Governing Body upon proper notice and
hearing, if one is requested by the licensee. (Ref. 17-137, 28-1003.03 through
28-1003.08 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 924, 12/5/17)
§ 10-421 RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public's view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within one hundred (100') feet of the crossing of any such railroad track
and a public road within the corporate limits of the Municipality; Provided,
however, in no instance shall any person who is authorized to control the
movement of such railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from
reasonably conducting his or her business. (Ref. 74-1323 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
527, 10/1/85)
ARTICLE 5: OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 10-501 OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
   Electric service companies furnishing light, heat or power under contract to
the Municipality or to other customers through equipment located therein, per
year   $100.00
   Fire Insurance Companies, per year   5.00
   Gas Companies distributing, manufacturing or furnishing gas,    2% of the
gross receipts derived from sales to the inhabitants of the Municipality;
                                 2% of the gross receipts derived natural,
manufactured, or mixed gases, to the inhabitants of the Municipality, per year
      Provided, the Governing Body may provide for such exceptions as it deems
necessary by resolution
   Retailers of beer, on-sale only, per year   25.00
   Retailers of alcoholic beverages, including beer, off-sales only   25.00
   Retailer of alcoholic beverages, including beer, on/off sales   50.00
   Special designated liquor license   
   Telephone Companies, per year   2% of the gross receipts derived from
rentals and intrastate tolls;
      Provided, the Governing Body may provide for such exceptions as it deems
necessary by resolution
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 905, 5/3/16; 905, 11/7/17; 949, 6/2/20; 972, 8/1/23; 982,
11/5/24)
§ 10-502 OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-503 OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of May
of each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon
the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said
Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying
the said tax, and the amount paid; Provided, occupation taxes collected from
Class C liquor licensees shall be due and payable on the first (1st) day of
November. The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him. All forms, and receipts
herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One (1) copy shall then be kept
by each party in the transaction. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
423, 3/1/77)
§ 10-504 OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-505 OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
until paid. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-506 OCCUPATION TAX; GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES.
   A.   For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall
apply:
      1.   The phrase "games of chance and/or lotteries" shall mean those forms
of gambling authorized by the State of Nebraska pursuant to Article III,
section 24 of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
      2.   The phrase "gambling device" shall mean any and all machines or
devices used by a person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of
chance and/or lotteries.
      3.   The phrase "person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of
chance and/or lotteries" shall mean any person who operates, owns or is the
lessee of a place of business where any game of chance and/or lottery activity
is conducted, whether or not any other type of business is conducted on the
premises; or, any person who either directly controls or manages the games of
chance and/or lotteries, or owns any machine or device used to engage in the
occupation of games of chance and/or lotteries, but does not sell, lease or
deliver possession or custody of such a device to other persons.
   B.   Occupation Tax. An occupation tax is hereby imposed on each person
engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the City. Every person conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the City shall pay the tax in the amount and manner specified in
subsection C.
   C.   Amount of occupation tax for persons engaged in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries. The occupation tax for each person
engaging in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the city shall be five percent (5%) of the gross receipts received by
said person in each quarter of a calendar year.
   D.   Amount of occupation tax for distributor. The occupation tax for
engaging in the occupation of distributing gambling devices within the city
shall be five percent (5%) of the gross receipts received by the distributor in
each quarter of a calendar year.
   E.   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
occupation of conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first
obtaining a license to do so.
   F.   License Application. Every person desiring a license required by the
provisions of this Article shall make application to the Municipal Clerk of the
City of Milford. Accompanying each application shall be:
      1.   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that such
member will be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations for each
occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries which he supervises.
      2.   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for the
proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, fee, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense will be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the State of Nebraska and the City
of Milford; and that all profits will be spent for a lawful purpose.
   G.   Display of License. Every license issued under the provisions of this
division shall be conspicuously displayed at the place where the game of chance
and/or lottery activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
   H.   License Fee. The license fee for engaging in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries within the City shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each location wherein such activity is conducted.
   I.   Exemption. Nonprofit organizations that desire to participate in games
of chance and/or lotteries, that are in compliance with the Small Lotteries and
Raffles Act of the State of Nebraska, and lotteries conducted pursuant to and
in compliance with the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, are exempt from
the provisions of this Article.
(Ord. No. 578, 10/2/90) (Amended by Ord. No. 970, 7/5/23)
ARTICLE 6: MICROWAVE AND SATELLITE DISHES
[Editor's Note: Article 6 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 530,
Passed January 7, 1986.]
§ 10-601 MICROWAVE AND SATELLITE DISHES; DEFINITIONS.
   "Microwave Dishes" and "Satellite Dishes," as contemplated herein shall mean
any type of microwave or satellite antenna or dish used for receiving
television and similar electronic broadcast or computer signals, exceeding
thirty-six (36) inches in diameter. (Amended by Ord. No. 750, 12/2/03)
§ 10-602 MICROWAVE AND SATELLITE DISHES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   In the interest of public safety and protection of existing structures
within the Municipality, a permit shall be required for the erection or
installation of any microwave or satellite dish in excess of thirty-six (36)
inches in diameter, within the corporate limits of the Municipality.
Application for said permit shall be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall
contain all the necessary information and documents required for the protection
of residents and structures within the Municipality. Said applicant shall be
required to pay a permit fee in such amount as may, from time to time, be fixed
by resolution or ordinance of the Governing Body. The current permit fee is set
forth in section 9-209(5) of this Code and is nonrefundable. Any applicant
granted a permit shall be subject to all provisions relating to microwave and
satellite dishes elsewhere in this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 750, 12/2/03)
§ 10-603 MICROWAVE DISHES; PUBLIC SAFETY.
   It shall be unlawful for any microwave or satellite dish to be located in
such a manner as to obstruct or impair the visibility of traffic upon public
streets; or to interfere with Municipal snow removal; or to interfere with
public safety. All setback requirements as provided in section 38, Page Z13 and
section 51.8, Page 220 of the Milford Comprehensive Plan, Volume 2, Development
Regulations, shall apply to the construction, installation and placement of
"microwave" and "satellite" dishes within the Municipality.
ARTICLE 7: CABLE TELEVISION
§ 10-701 CABLE TELEVISION; FRANCHISE.
   Galaxy Cable, Inc. operates a cable television system within the City under
Ordinance 644, adopted by the City Council on June 5, 1995. The request of
Galaxy Cable, Inc. to renew the franchise adopted June 5, 1995, as assigned, to
change the expiration date thereof from May 20, 2010 to May 20, 2025 is hereby
granted. (Ord. No. 792, 7/3/07)
ARTICLE 8: PENAL PROVISION
§ 10-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)
   For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
ARTICLE 9: LOTTERY
§ 10-901 AUTHORIZATION OF A MUNICIPAL LOTTERY.
   Approval by a majority of the registered voters of the city, having been
received in accordance with section 9-625 RS Neb., the City Council is
authorized to establish and conduct a lottery, as defined in section 9-607 RS
Neb. The lottery shall be conducted by a lottery operator pursuant to contract
and subject to the provisions of the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act (the
“Act”). Gross proceeds from the lottery shall be used solely for the awarding
of prizes, taxes, authorized expenses, and for community betterment purposes,
as defined in the Act.
(Ord. No. 971, 7/5/23)
§ 10-902 LOTTERY OPERATOR.
   (A)   The lottery shall be operated by a lottery operator. LOTTERY OPERATOR
shall mean any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation
which operates the lottery on behalf of the City pursuant to written contract.
   (B)   The lottery operator’s selection shall be at the sole discretion of
the governing body of the City pursuant to a duly-approved resolution, except
in the case where the lottery operator is selected pursuant to a valid
interlocal agreement to be entered between the City and another political
subdivision of the state to cooperate in the establishment and operation of a
lottery within the City pursuant to the Act.
   (C)   In all events, the lottery operator shall: (a) be a resident of the
state, or if a partnership or corporation, shall be organized under the laws of
the state; and (b) be licensed by the state Department of Revenue to conduct a
lottery pursuant to the Act.
   (D)   In addition to any obligations set forth in this section, the rights
and obligations of the lottery operator shall be as set forth in a contract
between the City and the lottery operator, except in the case where such
operational contract with the lottery operator already exists between the
lottery operator and another political subdivision of the state with whom the
City has entered a valid interlocal agreement to cooperate in the establishment
and operation of a lottery within the City pursuant to the Act.
   (E)   The lottery operator shall be required to install and maintain
security devices and measures to ensure the integrity, honesty, and fairness of
the lottery operation. Any such security system is subject to the approval and
inspection of the City.
(Ord. No. 971, 7/5/23)
§ 10-903 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator selected by the governing body shall not operate
the lottery at a sales outlet location, other than the location of the lottery
operator, without prior approval of the sales outlet location by the governing
body pursuant to a duly-approved resolution. The governing body shall approve
or disapprove each sales outlet location, and each individual, sole
proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation which
desires to conduct the lottery at such sales outlet location, solely on the
basis of the qualification standards prescribed in this division.
   (B)   The following qualification standards are hereby established by the
City and must be met by any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation seeking to have its location qualify
as an authorized sales outlet location for conducting a lottery within the
corporate limits of the City pursuant to the Act.
      (1)   Each applicant for a lottery sales outlet location shall submit to
the following materials to the Municipal Clerk:
         (a)   A copy of the completed state Schedule II/form 50gcounty/city
lottery sales outlet location application as required by the Division of
Charitable Gaming of the state Department of Revenue.
         (b)   A copy of the written agreement between the lottery operator and
the sales outlet location, which is sometimes referred to herein as a
“satellite location.”
         (c)   Any other information reasonably requested by the City.
      (2)   In reviewing any application to establish a satellite location
within the City, the following qualification criteria shall be applied:
         (a)   In the event that the City has entered into an interlocal
agreement to conduct the lottery, all locations must comply with any and all
requirements and criteria set forth therein.
         (b)   All locations must provide sufficient parking.
         (c)   All locations must provide seating capacity sufficient to
accommodate persons who may wish to come to the location to observe or play
lottery or to engage in any other activities conducted on the premises.
         (d)   All locations must have sufficient facilities to permit the sale
of tickets for the lottery.
         (e)   All locations must have a board or other monitor, clearly
visible to players, on which the winning numbers are displayed.
         (f)   All locations must have proper security for the lottery
operations and associated activities.
         (g)   All persons with any direct or indirect financial interest in
the operation of the lottery at any location must be of good character and
financially responsible.
         (h)   The operation of the lottery at any satellite location must not
create any undue impact on the surrounding neighborhood due to noise,
congestion, or other circumstances.
         (i)   All locations and operations at all locations must meet all
requirements of applicable federal, state, and local law.
         (j)   All locations must be fit, willing, and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the
Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act.
         (k)   No individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation
which seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet
location shall: (a) have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude; or (b) have had a gaming license revoked or
canceled under the state Bingo Act, the state Pickle Card Lottery Act, the
state Lottery and Raffle Act, or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act.
         (l)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the
qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every
office of such corporation and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of
such corporation.
         (m)   The City shall notify the Department of Revenue of all approved
lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
         (n)   The City must be immediately notified of any interruption or
cessation of operations at any satellite location.
         (o)   The direct or indirect transfer of any financial interest in the
satellite location will automatically terminate the City’s approval of said
satellite location; provided, however, the satellite operator will be permitted
to remain in operation for a period not to exceed 120 days under an agency
agreement with the prior existing satellite operator. During said 120 day
period, the applicant will diligently pursue the application process and
procedure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during said 120 day period, the City
may revoke continued operation of the proposed application for due cause.
Conduct of the keno lottery at said satellite location will thereafter continue
only upon application to the City and approval thereof pursuant to the terms
and conditions articulated herein.
(Ord. No. 971, 7/5/23)
§ 10-904 LIQUOR LICENSE.
   Alcoholic liquor may be sold at the location where the lottery is conducted
within the city, provided that the location and operator comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws in obtaining the appropriate liquor
licenses and approvals, including but not limited to, the state Liquor Control
Act. (Ref. 53-101 et seq. RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 971, 7/5/23)
§ 10-905 PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established herein.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator contracted to conduct this
lottery shall play the lottery established herein.
   (C)   No employee or agent of the City, lottery operator, or any authorized
sales outlet location shall play a lottery conducted pursuant to the Act during
which he or she is working at that lottery or is on duty with the lottery.
   (D)   Nothing shall prohibit the following persons from playing the lottery
established herein:
      (1)   Any member of the City Council, any other municipal official, or
the immediate family of such Council member or official; or
      (2)   An owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location within
the City.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, immediate family of a member of the City
Council or other municipal official shall mean spouses, children,
grandchildren, siblings, or parents, including those individuals with the same
relationship to the spouse, residing in the same household under the control
and support of the head of such household.
(Ord. No. 971, 7/5/23)
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
      Article
         
1.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
2.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
3.   [RESERVED]
         
4.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
ARTICLE 1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 11-101 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Milford, Nebraska,
dated July 3, 2007, and prepared by JEO Consulting Group, Inc. for the City of
Milford, be and the same is hereby adopted as the offficial Comprehensive
Development Plan of the City of Milford, Nebraska.
   (B)   Three (3) copies of the Comprehensive Development Plan of the City of
Milford, Nebraska are on file and shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk. (Ord. No. 790, 7/3/07) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 887, 1/6/15; 923, 12/5/17)
ARTICLE 2: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 11-201 ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations for the City of
Milford, Nebraska, dated July 3, 2007 and prepared by JEO Consulting Group,
Inc. for the City of Milford, Nebraska be and the same is hereby adopted as the
official Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations of the City of Milford,
Nebraska.
   (B)   Three (3) copies of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations
for the City of Milford, Nebraska are on file and shall be kept in the office
of the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 791, 7/3/07) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 831, 11/9/09;
856, 11/1/11; 857, 11/1/11; 858, 3/6/12; 881, 4/1/14; 882, 5/6/14, 883, 5/6/14;
934, 2/5/19; 935, 2/5/19; 936; 2/5/19)
ARTICLE 3: [RESERVED]
ARTICLE 4: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
§ 11-401 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Governing Body of the City of Milford, Nebraska has completed a proposed
Economic Development Plan pursuant to section 18-2701 et seq. RS Neb. a copy of
which is incorporated herein by reference as fully as if set forth at length
herein. One copy of the Economic Development Plan shall be kept on file with
the Municipal Clerk and is available for inspection by the public during office
hours. (Ord. No. 688, 12/1/98)
CHAPTER 12: PENAL PROVISION
      Article
         
1.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
ARTICLE 1: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
§ 12-101 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
provision of the Municipal Code, specifically including but not limited to
Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5, Chapter 6, Chapter 7,
Chapter 8, Chapter 9 and Chapter 10, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
(Ord. No. 703, 4/4/00)  
§ 12-102 FINE SCHEDULE.
   The Mayor and City Council hereby adopt the waiver fine schedule for
violations of the municipal ordinances set forth therein to establish
uniformity with the existing fine schedules in the County Court of Seward
County, Nebraska. The Fine/Waiver Schedule is attached to Ordinance 826 as
Exhibit 1 and incorporated as fully as if set forth at length herein.
(Ord. No. 826, 8/4/09)
 
