MITCHELL, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 805, passed 8-8-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Mitchell
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mitchell,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this code, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription: “The
City of Mitchell, Nebraska; Incorporated April 10, 1917.” The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall affix an impression of the official seal to all warrants,
licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of
the governing body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   President; Acting President
   
30.16   Selection and duties
   
30.17   Organization
   
30.18   Vacancy
   
30.19   Qualifications; holding other elective office
   
30.20   Standing committees
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1) The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council if
(a) the Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council members being equally
divided or (b) a majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of
one or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is
deemed to be a member of the City Council.
      (2)    The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk-Treasurer of the veto in writing. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
City Council in writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim
vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds
of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any
contract or the allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure within
the time required by this section, the measure shall become effective without
his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation
bill, or any claims bill, and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or
items vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes of all
meetings of the City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that
have been passed and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the
Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.16 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103 and 17-104
§ 30.17 ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of this municipality shall take office and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council members, who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report
shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104 and 19-613
§ 30.18 VACANCY.
   (A)   Vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term, except as provided in this
section. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the
incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Council at a regular or
special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting.
   (B)   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
or by posting in three public places in the city the office vacated and the
length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the regular meeting at which
such notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the City Council, at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
City Council during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (E)   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council, the vacancy
shall be filled. If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be
rejected, and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of
another qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by
majority vote, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of
qualified electors, and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such
nominations until the vacancy is filled.
   (F)   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (G)   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee.
   (H)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
office as provided herein, call a special municipal election to fill such
vacancy.
   (I)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, there shall be a special municipal election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 514, passed 3-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1406 
§ 30.19 QUALIFICATIONS; HOLDING OTHER ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officials shall be residents and registered voters of the
city. No person shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or
holding an elective office for the reason that he or she has been elected or
appointed to or holds another elective office, unless that person is presently
serving as a member of the legislature or in an elective office described in
Article IV, § 1, of the Constitution of the state. A legislator, or an office
holder elected pursuant to Article IV, may simultaneously serve in another
elective office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body. Whenever an incumbent of the legislature, or
an office holder elected pursuant to Article IV, assumes another elective
office, except an elective office filled at an election held in conjunction
with the annual meeting of a public body, the office first held by the
incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (B)   Members of the Council shall hold no other employment with the city.
Any Council member who ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by
this section or who has been convicted of a crime while in office shall
forthwith forfeit such office. The Council shall be the judge of the election
and qualifications of its members, subject to review by the courts.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 515, passed 3-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 19-613 and 32-563
§ 30.20 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a
term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Streets, Alleys and Equipment;
      (2)   Garbage;
      (3)   Recreation;
      (4)   Airport;
      (5)   Supplies and Purchases;
      (6)   Buildings, Dump and Landfill;
      (7)   Park and Parkways;
      (8)   Grants and Assessments; or
      (9)   Municipal Care Center.
(Prior Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 692, passed 9-7-2006)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; city officials
   
31.03   Intergovernmental risk management; authority
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   Appointment; removal
   
31.16   Merger of offices
   
31.17   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.18   City Clerk
   
31.19   City Treasurer
   
31.20   City Attorney; City Prosecutor
   
31.21   City Health Officer
   
31.22   City Utilities Superintendent
   
31.23   City Building Inspector
   
31.24   City Street Commissioner
   
31.25   City Engineer; special engineer
   
31.26   Zoning Administrator
Meetings
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.42   Notice to news media
   
31.43   Council meetings; when; quorum
   
31.44   Emergency meetings
   
31.45   Closed sessions
   
31.46   Public participation
   
31.47   City Council; order of business
   
31.48   Votes
   
31.49   Minutes
   
31.50   Change in office
   
31.51   Organizational meeting
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
31.65   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.66   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
31.67   Salaries of officials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall carefully record and preserve the bonds
in his or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required,
under the seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the
same the usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other
cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to the approval of the City
Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.03 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb.
RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action, in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to
form, become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 471, passed 9-21-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 592, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107 and 81-1438
§ 31.16 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.17 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
governing body by §
31.16.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.18 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the State Historical Society for
permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other duties as may
be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting as the
Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.19(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom, except
by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same, but
only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a
record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
Statutory reference:
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq.
§ 31.19 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.20 CITY ATTORNEY; CITY PROSECUTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as
such he or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments and documents as to whether or not the document is in legal
and proper form. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
governing body, the ordinance record and advise and assist the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will
be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be valid and
subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and approval are concerned.
   (B)   The Municipal Prosecutor shall prosecute complaints, attend and
prosecute violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the
governing body and shall in all events act as legal counsel for the Municipal
Police Department.
   (C)   The office of Municipal Attorney and Municipal Prosecutor may be held
by the same individual.
   (D)   The governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney and Municipal Prosecutor for legal services on such terms as the
governing body and the Municipal Attorney and Municipal Prosecutor may agree,
and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the
funds of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-208) (Ord. 641, passed 12-3-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.21 CITY HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Municipal Health Officer shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality and perform the duties set forth in the city code and state
statutes as the medical advisor of the Board of Health. The Municipal Health
Officer shall be a physician, health care provider or physician’s assistant as
defined in statute. He or she shall make all physical examinations and
necessary laboratory tests incident thereto and issue such health certificates
as are required by ordinance. For the purpose of making examinations of the
sanitary conditions of property and the state of health of the inhabitants
therein, he or she shall have the right at all reasonable hours to go upon and
enter all premises, buildings or other structures in the municipality. He or
she shall perform such other duties as may be required of the Health Officer by
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to
do so by the governing body, he or she shall disinfect or fumigate the premises
or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined, and to
call upon indigent sick persons, and to perform other professional services at
the direction of the governing body. The Municipal Health Officer shall receive
as compensation for his or her services such sum as the governing body may from
time to time set. No compensation shall be paid for services as a member of the
Municipal Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 1-209) (Ord. 617, passed 1-4-2000)
§ 31.22 CITY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is
in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all said municipal utilities, swimming pool and the land
surrounding the pool. The Utilities Superintendent may be removed for cause by
the Mayor and Council on the recommendation of the Board of Public Works, or by
the Mayor with the consent of the Council at any time. Any vacancy occurring in
said office by death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner
hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in said water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain said system.
Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she shall collect
all money received by the municipality on account of said system of waterworks
and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
all such money collected in the name of the municipality and receive a receipt
from the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or her
faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and the second copy shall be kept by the
Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to the governing body,
at least once every six months, of the condition of said water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs
and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of
said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent.
The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less than the amount
set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. He or she shall perform such additional duties as
may be prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the sewer system and shall
direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed, along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall issue permits for
all connections to the municipal sewer system and inspect and supervise all
repairs made to said system.
      (3)   Swimming pool. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal swimming pool. He or she shall be responsible for its
efficient daily operation and shall make a detailed report to the governing
body on the condition of the swimming pool and the necessary appurtenances
during each month the pool is in operation. He or she shall direct the
attention of the governing body to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. The Utilities Superintendent shall also
be responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the land surrounding the
swimming pool as a municipal park, as well as such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her.
      (4)   Electric system. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all employees and property that make up
the municipal electric system, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the electrical system and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as
the governing body may delegate to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-119, 17-541 and 17-543
§ 31.23 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings
and structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall
investigate all complaints, whether they are verbal, written or in the form of
a petition alleging and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances
exists, and that a building, or structure is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation. The Building Inspector shall also enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring and plumbing, as well as the connections
thereto. He or she is authorized upon properly identifying himself or herself
to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or
occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be
available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report
including statistics based on the records kept.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the
furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration
or maintenance of a building, except where he or she is the owner of a
building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for any said dealer, or as an
agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector
shall report to the Zoning Administrator and/or governing body, as often as
they may deem necessary, and shall have such other duties and issue such
permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any time
for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-216)
§ 31.24 CITY STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.25 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.26 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Administrator. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as
Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1-217)
MEETINGS
§ 31.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the
state, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-501) (Ord. 679, passed 4-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409 and 84-1409(2)  
§ 31.41 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate
some other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized
notice of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to
all members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by
the governing body, or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or
48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the governing body
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   The governing body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meetings. The minutes
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall include the record of the manner and
advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of
how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated,
the time and specific place of the meetings and the names of each member of the
governing body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the
governing body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon
request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
taken only by roll call vote of the governing body in open session. The record
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall show how each member voted, or that the
member was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-503) (Ord. 469, passed 9-21-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411 and 84-1413
§ 31.42 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.43 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held at the City Hall.
Regular meetings are held on the first Tuesday of each month at the hour of 6:
30 p.m., except that if the first Tuesday is a legal holiday or if such first
Tuesday is before the fourth day of the month, then such regular meeting may be
held on the second Tuesday of the month.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members
of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in
writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. On filing the call
for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Council
members of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a
special meeting need not be given to a Council member known to be out of the
state or physically unable to be present. Two-thirds of the members of the City
Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the
absent members; provided, that on the request of any two members, whether a
quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to
attend.
      (2)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a
quorum is present. If a quorum is present the Council shall be called to order
by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the
absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City Council
members shall elect a President pro tempore.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 679, passed 4-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105 and 17-106
§ 31.44 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes, and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
31.42 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.45 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   (1)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open
session. The entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding
a closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the
presiding officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the
record the limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public
body holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance given by members
of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed sessions
authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.46 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.45, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
§ 31.47 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk-Treasurer and such other
city officials who may be required shall take their regular stations in the
meeting place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration
and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.48 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.49 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.50 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 31.51 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of
meeting in the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in
which a municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns
and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for
the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body, who shall be styled as President of the Council. The Mayor shall then
nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall then
proceed with the regular order of business.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Council, or
his or her successor in office, and of each officer elected to any office, to
qualify prior to the first regular meeting in December following his or her
election. All appointive officers shall qualify within two weeks following
their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not required to give
bond shall consist in his or her subscribing and taking an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the state, the laws of
the municipality and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or
her office, said oath to be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the required
bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office, with
the oath endorsed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 31.65 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.16, except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the emoluments thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.66 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 31.67 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the municipality are
hereby fixed as follows:
   (A)   Mayor: $2,000 per year; and
   (B)   City Council member: $1,000 per year.
(Prior Code, § 1-903) (Ord. 498, passed 2-26-1990)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Board of Public Works
   
32.06   Cemetery governing body
   
32.07   Housing Authority Board
   
32.08   Panhandle Resource Council
   
32.09   Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission
   
32.10   Care Center Committee
Fire Department
   
32.25   Operation and funding
   
32.26   Fire Chief
   
32.27   Membership
   
32.28   Fires
   
32.29   Distant fires
   
32.30   Preservation of property
   
32.31   Inspections
   
32.32   Notice of violation
   
32.33   Impersonating firefighters
   
32.34   Mandatory assistance
   
32.35   Fire investigation
   
32.36   Rescue unit
Police Department
   
32.50   Duties
   
32.51   Police Chief
   
32.52   Police officers
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219,
and except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
president and secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a majority of
the members of the Board.
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint the Planning Commission which shall
consist of seven members who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the
different professions or occupations in the municipality and who shall be
residents of the municipality. However, two of such members may be residents of
the area over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulations. The members of the Commission shall serve a
three-year term of office unless reappointed. The Commission shall serve
without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing
body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the
Commission’s first meeting in June of each year, the Commission shall organize
by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and secretary. It shall be the
duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer where they
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall be funded by the governing body from
time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Commission.
It shall be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the physical
development of the municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries
which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the
municipality. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. Recommendations from the Commission shall be
received by the governing body within 90 days after the Commission begins
consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan,
capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation
of territory or zoning.
   (C)   The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the governing body may from time to time
designate. No member of the governing body or other municipal official, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning
Commission while serving any other term of office. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and secretary of
the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 563, passed 3-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The County Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment for
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-912.01
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the
first meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall
hold more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer where they shall
be available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health
shall be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General
Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may from time to time
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 601, passed 1-6-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 32.05 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system, and the City Council has created a Board of
Public Works, the Board shall consist of not less than three, nor more than six
members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the Mayor and a
majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time. The term of
the first members of the Board shall be one, two, three or four years in the
manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be, after which the term of
each member shall be four years; and the terms of not more than two members
shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. RS 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. The Board shall have the power to operate any utility referred to
it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the city for the operation
and government of such utility to the same extent, in the same manner, and
under the same restrictions as the City Council could do if no such Board of
Public Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works shall not make any
expenditure or contract any indebtedness other than for ordinary running
expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City Council, without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of Public Works shall
report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may require.
(Neb. RS 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council, the Board of
Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance designed and
intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility operated by the
city. For that purpose, the Board of Public Works may make contributions to pay
premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions from salaries of
employees, and take such other steps as may be necessary to effectuate such
plan of insurance.
(Neb. RS 17-802.01)
   (D)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon as
practicable after their appointment, by electing a Chairperson and secretary,
who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and thereafter
the Board shall elect a Chairperson and secretary at the first meeting in June
each year. In the absence of the regular officers, temporary officers to serve
in their places may be chosen by the members present at any meeting. They shall
establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such rules as may be
necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They shall keep a
record of their proceedings and if there is a legal newspaper published in or
of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the minutes of each
meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. RS 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board before entering upon the
duties of the office shall be required to give bond to the city with corporate
surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of member of the Board of Public Works;
and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Council and
shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer; provided, that the premium on the
bond shall be paid out of any public utility fund designated by the Mayor and
Council.
(Neb. RS 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. RS 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board determines that the best interests of the city and the
patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served, they may
employ the duly elected City Clerk-Treasurer as ex officio bookkeeper and
collector for the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable
salary for the extra services required of him or her in such position in
addition to his or her salary as Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-810)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
§ 32.06 CEMETERY GOVERNING BODY.
   The Cemetery Board created for the city is hereby dissolved. All duties and
responsibilities of the Cemetery Board shall now be the duty and responsibility
of the City Council. All regulations and policies established by the Cemetery
Board are hereby adopted by the City Council. Regulations concerning operation
of the Cemetery Board may be adopted and modified by resolution of the City
Council. All funds maintained in the Cemetery Board account shall continue to
be segregated and maintained in a separate fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-207.01) (Ord. 591, passed 11-4-1997)
§ 32.07 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Authority. One Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each
Commissioner shall serve a five-year term of office or until his or her
successor is duly appointed; provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired terms. The governing body may appoint one of its members to serve
as one of the five members of such Housing Authority for such term as the
governing body may determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he
or she resides within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A
certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and such certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner.
      (2)   A Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her
services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including
travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her duties. A majority of
Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of
conducting its business, exercising its powers and for all other purposes.
Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the
Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall
require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an
executive director who shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority.
The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for
one year thereafter, no commissioner, officer or employee of the Municipal
Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect,
in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any
project, or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing
project.
      (3)   If any such commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily
acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such
interest prior to appointment or employment as commissioner, officer or
employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing
to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by the Authority
relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any such interest;
provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in
notes or bonds of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project,
or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or
handling of funds in connection with a project, or to act as trustee under any
trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or
controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for
neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter.
The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice
shall contain a statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless
within ten days from the receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with
the Clerk-Treasurer a request for a hearing before the governing body, the
Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing
is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer, the governing body of the municipality shall
hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in
person or by counsel, and the governing body shall determine whether the
removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the
Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
      (4)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
   (B)   Operation and management.
      (1)   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
         (a)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income and
displaced persons in need.
         (b)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy
of tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin or ancestry.
         (c)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have an
aggregate annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority
has conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe,
sanitary and uncongested dwelling accommodations within the area served by the
Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
         (d)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling
consisting of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and
sanitary accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
         (e)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents
after taking into consideration:
            1.   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and
other factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
            2.   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
         (f)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income.
         (g)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section, and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
         (h)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to
inquire into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
         (i)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
      (2)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
section concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated shall
be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
times set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated, and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
      (3)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this section concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority
may remove the same and store such property at the tenant’s risk and expense.
In the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the
tenant or other person authorized by law to take possession within 45 days
after such termination, vacation or abandonment, and any storage removal
charges remain unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose of the
personal property in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except that any
proceeds from the disposal of such personal property shall be paid to the
general fund of the body which created the Authority. No tenant or other person
shall have any cause of action against the Authority for such removal or
disposition of such personal property.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
   (C)   Reports. The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all
its activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an
annual report at the second regular meeting in January of each year to the
governing body. Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in
real property held by the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and
land sale contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and
obligations; and all other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over
$50,000. Such reports shall be considered public records. If there has been no
change from the last report in the status of any of the items reported pursuant
to this section, the Housing Authority may file a statement to that effect in
lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 to 71-15,168
§ 32.08 PANHANDLE RESOURCE COUNCIL.
   The city is hereby authorized to join with any incorporated villages or
cities, counties and natural resources districts that are eligible and may wish
to participate in the creation of the Panhandle Resource Council through the
execution of an intergovernmental agreement.
(Prior Code, § 2-211)
§ 32.09 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Established; membership; term.
      (1)   An Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission is established.
This Commission shall consist of five registered voters of the city. Each
member shall serve a term of two years, except that for the first Commission
appointments, three members shall be appointed for a two-year term and two
members shall be appointed for a one-year term. No member shall serve more than
two consecutive terms. At least one member of the Commission shall have
expertise or experience in the field of business finance or accounting.
      (2)   No member of the Commission shall be an elected or appointed city
official, an employee of the city or participant in a decision making position
regarding expenditures of program funds, or an officer or employee of any
qualifying business receiving financial assistance under the city economic
development program or any financial institution participating directly in the
program. Provided, the City Services Superintendent or his or her designee
shall serve as program liaison officer and shall be an ex officio member of the
Commission with responsibility for assisting the Commission and providing it
with necessary information and advice on the program.
      (3)   In addition, the City Services Superintendent is designated as the
program administrator for the program with duties and responsibilities as
provided for in the municipal economic development plan.
(Prior Code, § 2-212)
   (B)   Duties; meetings. The Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission
shall review the city economic development program and advise the City Council
with regard to the program, and perform any other duties as prescribed by state
law. It shall schedule regular meetings at least quarterly. At least once in
every six-month period, the Commission shall report to the City Council on its
findings and suggestions at a public hearing called for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-213)
   (C)   Access to confidential information. Members of the Economic
Development Citizen Advisory Commission may be permitted access to business
information received by the city in the course of its administration of the
program, which information would otherwise be confidential under state law or
by agreement with a qualifying business participating in the program.
Unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information shall be a
Class III misdemeanor pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-214)
(Ord. 581, passed 12-18-1996) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.10 CARE CENTER COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint
a Municipal Care Center Committee to act in an advisory capacity and an
oversight function between the public, the residents and employees of the Care
Center Committee and the City Council. The City Council shall retain the
capacity to make final decisions in regard to the final operation and financing
of the Municipal Care Center. However, the Committee shall regularly meet and
hear concerns among the citizens, residents and their family members, and
employees of the Municipal Care Center to develop policy and act as an
oversight committee to advise the City Council in regard to decisions in the
operation and financing of the care center.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Care Center Committee shall consist of five
members who are all residents of the municipality. The first appointed members
of the Committee shall cast lots at the first regular meeting of the Municipal
Care Center Committee to determine the respective terms of office and shall
report the results to the City Administrator. One member of the Committee shall
hold his or her position for one year, two members of the Committee shall hold
their position for two years and two members of the Committee shall hold their
position for three years, from the first day of December, following
appointment.
      (2)   All subsequent appointments shall be for three years, except to
fill vacancies. After the lots have been cast and the determination of
Committee members’ terms completed, the members of the Committee shall choose
from its number a Chairperson and a secretary. It shall be the duty of the
secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and record of all meetings and
to file the same with the City Clerk-Treasurer, where they shall be available
for public inspection at any time. The minutes of each meeting shall be
published in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city within 30
days after the meeting is held. The Committee shall meet at least once per
month or more often, as is required to conduct business. The majority of the
Committee members shall constitute a quorum for any meeting and resolution or
recommendation given to the Mayor and the City Council.
      (3)   All actions of the Committee shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The Committee shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may, from time to time, designate.
   (C)   The position of any Committee member shall be vacant if he or she no
longer resides within the city limits, or if he or she is absent, and the
absence is not excused by the Committee for five consecutive regular meetings
of the Committee. The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall fill
any vacancy by appointment of a new member for the Committee to fill the
unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2-216) (Ord. 692, passed 9-7-2006)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.25 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a Volunteer Fire Department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.26 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 32.27 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the Volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and upon confirmation
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council and thereafter shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness in
connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer firefighters
and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall not be deemed
employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
Statutory reference:
   State Workers’ Compensation Act, see Neb. RS 48-101 et seq.
§ 32.28 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.29 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.30 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining
property. Said officials may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire, and the official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-506)
§ 32.31 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire department is established or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours, may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 through 81-531, the State
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous
Substances Storage and Handling Act and any other statutory duties imposed upon
the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization of
such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
Statutory reference:
   Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, see
Neb. RS 81-542 et seq.
   State Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, see Neb. RS 81-542 et seq.
§ 32.32 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her agent,
appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days nor
more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with the
City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the
order as safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that
reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the
probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A
copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.33 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Prior Code, § 3-509) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-609
§ 32.34 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-510) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.35 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the
cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire, and
the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary.
   (B)   The officer making the investigation of fires occurring in the city
shall forthwith notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the
occurrence of the fire furnish him or her written statement of all the facts
relating to the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he
or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
§ 32.36 RESCUE UNIT.
   The Fire Department may also operate a rescue unit for the benefit of those
within the fire protection district.
(Neb. RS 35-514.02) (Prior Code, § 3-512)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.50 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business
places and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of
Police and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are strictly
enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons for
violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer making
a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person,
whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial
official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to them upon their
release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file such reports as
may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the state. No law
enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment having a
liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.51 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 32.52 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure
for such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of the
Police Chief, the Mayor or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the public
or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a physically
present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Term of office
   
33.04   Primary election; number of candidates filing
   
33.05   Tie votes
   
33.06   Term of office
   
33.07   Elections; joint, general
   
33.08   Elections; special, joint
   
33.09   Elections; special municipal
   
33.10   Filing fee
   
33.11   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.12   Officials
   
33.13   Officials oath
   
33.14   Voter qualifications
   
33.15   Council members
   
33.16   Ballots
   
33.17   Certificate of election
   
33.18   Inability to assume office
   
33.19   Recall procedure
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the municipality shall serve a term of four years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-702)
§ 33.04 PRIMARY ELECTION; NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 1-703)
§ 33.05 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the Canvassing Board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
§ 33.06 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition or
write-in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the
general election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes
received at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of
the candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
§ 33.07 ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL.
   The general municipal election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 32. The governing body has determined, by ordinance
duly adopted, to hold the municipal election in conjunction with the statewide
primary election, held on the first Tuesday after the second Monday in May of
each even-numbered year. Prior to February 1 of the year, in which the first
such joint election takes place, the governing body shall receive the consent
in writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer for municipal election purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-706)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-505 and 32-1204 et seq.
§ 33.08 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL, JOINT.
   (A)   Any issue to be submitted to the registered voters at a special
election by the municipality shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior
to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS
32-952 through 32-959. No special election to be conducted by the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior to or 60 days
after the statewide primary election, and no special election to be conducted
by the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior
to or 60 days after the statewide general election.
   (B)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the
municipality may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or
at any scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted
at a statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
   (C)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of such
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The
ballots, including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same
time and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the
canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the governing body. The
canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as
if made by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 596, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-559
§ 33.09 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL MUNICIPAL.
   A special municipal election may be held upon notice of such election being
prepared and published by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, except as otherwise
provided by law, not less than five days, nor more than ten days prior to any
special election. Such elections shall be conducted in accordance with the
municipal election code, Neb. RS 19-3001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
§ 33.10 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment
or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to
the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Clerk-
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 33.11 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms. Petition signers and petition circulators shall
conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for
nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing
the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The
petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.12 OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall, at least 15 days prior to the state primary
elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three
judges and two clerks of election in each election unit in the municipality, to
be known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of
good character, approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write and
speak the English language, reside in the election precinct in which he or she
is to serve, be entitled to vote in his or her election unit and hold office
for a term of two years, or until judges and clerks of election are appointed
for the next state primary election.
(Prior Code, § 1-712)
§ 33.13 OFFICIALS OATH.
   Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election
shall severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by
state law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall
be lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and
the clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry
to be made thereof and affixed to each poll book.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101.01
§ 33.14 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, that no person
shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the state and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county.
(Prior Code, § 1-714)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-602 and 32-102
§ 33.15 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Council members shall be elected from the municipality at large unless the
residents of the municipality have voted to elect its Council members by wards.
Council members shall serve for a term of four years and shall be a resident
and qualified elector. If the election of Council members takes place by wards,
each nominee for Council member shall be a resident and qualified elector of
the ward for which he or she is a candidate, and only residents of that ward
may sign the candidate’s nomination petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1-715)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-120
§ 33.16 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election, and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-716)
§ 33.17 CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   After the canvass of the vote at the municipal election, the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom
the Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest vote, and in the
form as nearly as possible prescribed by state law, which shall be signed by
the Mayor under the seal of the municipality and countersigned by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. Said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so
elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-717)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558
§ 33.18 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (A)   In any general election, where the person who received the highest
number of votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason
is unable to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate, and the
electorate had reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the
election, the candidate in such election who received the next highest number
of votes shall be declared elected and shall be entitled to the certificate of
election; provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less
than 35% of the total number of votes cast for such office in the election.
   (B)   If any of the qualifications of this section are not met by the
candidate to be declared elected, or reasonable notice of the winners
ineligibility is not available to the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be
declared to exist at the time of commencement of the term and shall be filled
as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-718)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-537(7) and (8)
§ 33.19 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first class mail to the official’s last known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first class mail to the official’s
last known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the election commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement with the
filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.02   Orders of warrants for money; expenditures
   
34.03   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.04   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.05   Special assessment fund
   
34.06   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.07   Deposit of funds
   
34.08   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
34.09   Bond issues
Annual Budget
   
34.20   Fiscal year
   
34.21   Budget procedures
   
34.22   Proposed budget statement; filing
   
34.23   Budget hearing
   
34.24   Adopted budget statement; filing
   
34.25   Appropriation bill
Tax Levies
   
34.40   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.41   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.42   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.43   Property tax levy; authority to set
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment
or explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk-
Treasurer and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public
inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk-Treasurer,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s
actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.02 ORDERS OF WARRANTS FOR MONEY; EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Clerk-Treasurer for money, unless the
same has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the
payment of which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to
the provisions of §
34.03, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the City Clerk-Treasurer must be signed by the
Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk-Treasurer, stating the particular
fund to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.03 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.04 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall collect the special assessments which it levies
and perform all other necessary functions related thereto including
foreclosure. Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom such
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay such special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (B)   The municipality shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 599, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1216
§ 34.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City Clerk-
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.06 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for library purposes under the
provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such
city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) above.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Clerk-Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council,
in the manner provided in §
34.08. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk-Treasurer in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 34.07 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Clerk-Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.08 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Clerk-Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Clerk-
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Clerk-Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas
funds, or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural
gas distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light,
water or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any,
after such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
Statutory reference:
   State Capital Expansion Act, see Neb. RS 17-1269 et seq.
   State Funds Investment Act, see Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq.
§ 34.09 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
§ 34.21 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.22 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   (A)   The governing body shall, not later than August 1 of each year, on
forms prescribed and furnished by the State Auditor, prepare in writing and
file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer a proposed budget statement containing
the following:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, other than revenue received from taxation, allocated to each of the
several funds and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund:
the unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the
year; the amount received by taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of
actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, allocated to each of the several funds and separately stated as to
each such source, and for each fund: the actual unencumbered cash balance
available for such fund at the beginning of the year; the amount received from
taxation allocated to each fund; and the amount of actual and estimated
expenditure, whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash
reserve for each such fund for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not
such reserve is encumbered. Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon
the actual experience of prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, other than revenue to be received from taxation, separately
stated as to each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds,
and for each fund: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances,
whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the
amounts proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash
reserve, based on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall
not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property for the purpose of
paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the governing body and for
all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared, pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total of all funds
maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources other than
taxation shall equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount
shall be shown on the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section.
The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined above, plus the estimated
revenue from sources other than taxation and the unencumbered balances shall
equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required cash reserve, for
the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 597, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505
§ 34.23 BUDGET HEARING.
   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the governing
body shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of said hearing, as
well as a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such
hearing. If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506
§ 34.24 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   The governing body shall file with and certify to the levying board on or
before September 20 of each year and file with the State Auditor a copy of the
adopted budget statement, together with the amount of tax to be levied, setting
out separately the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be levied for all other
purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements. The
governing body shall not certify any tax that exceeds the maximum levy
prescribed by state law, except that in certifying the amount to be so levied,
allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount to be
levied plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 598, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 34.25 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council may
appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.40 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
34.41, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.41 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Off-street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Off-street
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately, by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City
Council shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the
political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The City Council may
approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request
that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated
by the city may be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
Statutory reference:
   Cities Airport Authorities Act, see Neb. RS 3-501
   Community Development Law, see Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq.
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Interlocal Cooperation Act, see Neb. RS 13-801
   Joint Public Agency Act, see Neb. RS 13-2501
   Offstreet Parking District Act, see Neb. RS 19-3301
§ 34.42 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 34.43 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   Upon receipt of the preliminary levy from the County Clerk, the governing
body may either accept or change the amount of the preliminary levy established
by the County. If the amount of the preliminary levy is deemed to be adequate
and sufficient by the governing body, the preliminary levy shall become the
final levy without further action by the governing body. The governing body may
reject the preliminary levy and pass by a majority vote a resolution or
ordinance setting the levy at a different amount prior to October 15. Such
resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after the governing body holds a
special public hearing called for such purpose and after notice of the hearing
is published in a newspaper of general circulation within the municipality at
least five days prior to the hearing. Any resolution or ordinance setting a tax
levy under this section shall be forwarded to the County Clerk and certified.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 600, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1632
CHAPTER 35: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
35.01   Grant of power
   
35.02   Introduction of ordinances
   
35.03   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
35.04   Ordinances; style, title
   
35.05   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
35.06   Publication or posting
   
35.07   Certificate of publication or posting
   
35.08   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
35.09   Amendments and revisions
   
35.10   Application to property outside city limits
Initiative and Referendum
   
35.25   Powers; purpose; definitions
   
35.26   Petitions, ballots
   
35.27   Petitions; form
   
35.28   Signature sheets
   
35.29   Petitions, affidavit
   
35.30   Petitions, notification
   
35.31   Frequency of occurrence
   
35.32   Direct vote
   
35.33   Elections
   
35.34   Ballots
   
35.35   Initiative
   
35.36   Referendum limitations
   
35.37   Referendum, passage
   
35.38   Applicability
 
   
35.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 35.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting
fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 35.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk-
Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer, who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 35.03 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
35.02 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
§ 35.04 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Mitchell, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 35.05 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days, unless three-fourths of the governing body vote
to suspend this requirement, except that such requirement shall not be
suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of
any ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
      (2)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the governing body, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the governing body shall be required.
   (C)   All appointments of the officers by the governing body shall be made
viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce
vote shall be satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an electronic voting
device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the governing body to
be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 594, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 35.06 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 35.07 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk-Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when
and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where
the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 35.08 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality.
      (2)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body and be entered of record on the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 595, passed 12-9-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613 and 19-3701
§ 35.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 35.10 APPLICATION TO PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   All ordinances and provisions of this code shall apply to any property
owned, maintained or operated by the city which is located outside the city
limits. City police are hereby authorized to enforce the applicable provisions
of the city code to any property owned, maintained or operated by the city
which is located outside the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-611) (Ord. 541, passed 4-1-1993)
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 35.25 POWERS; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer or the municipal official
in charge of elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to enact, and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
35.36.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mitchell, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
35.26, or any copy of such document.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 35.26 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a prospective petition. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall date the prospective petition immediately upon its
receipt. The Clerk-Treasurer shall verify that the prospective petition is in
proper form and shall provide a ballot title for the initiative or referendum
proposal, as described below. If the prospective petition is in proper form,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall authorize the circulation of the petition and such
authorization shall be given within three working days from the date the
prospective petition was filed. If the form of the prospective petition is
incorrect in any way, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within three working days from
the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of necessary
changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested changes have
been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted to the Clerk-
Treasurer in proper form, the Clerk-Treasurer shall authorize the circulation
of the petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days
from the receipt of the properly revised petition.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten-point type, except that the caption shall be in black face. All
initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner
without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been
approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512 and 18-2513
§ 35.27 PETITIONS; FORM.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions, including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk-Treasurer, and they shall serve as a guide
for individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition may be granted by the Clerk-Treasurer. Those preparing
prospective petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition
for circulation, once authorization for circulation has been granted, and each
petition presented for signature must be identical to the petition authorized
for circulation by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Every petition shall contain the name and residential address of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
35.26, and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514 and 18-2515
§ 35.28 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
35.26(A);
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her residential address and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her address or
date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian or given
name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or given
name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 35.29 PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to
be signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and address correctly.
   (B)   When a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated
in the petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
§ 35.30 PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk-Treasurer within six months from the date the prospective
petition was authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not
obtained by such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006)
§ 35.31 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 35.32 DIRECT VOTE.
   (A)   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at
any time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, enacted by it, or enacted by the
electors under this subchapter and may provide in such resolution that such
shall be submitted at a special election or the next regularly scheduled
primary or general election.
   (B)   Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote
of the electors, at the time specified in such resolution and in the manner
provided in this subchapter for submission of measures upon proposals and
petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a
majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 35.33 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall call elections under this subchapter, either
at a special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or
she shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in such municipality and also posted in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer and three or more conspicuous places in such
municipality at least 30 days prior to such election.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall cause copies of measures initiated or
referred to be printed in pamphlet form and furnish the same to the electors of
such municipality upon their application or order. Such notice provided in this
section shall designate where such copies may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 35.34 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared and furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer, unless the governing body
contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in form the same as
provided by law for election of the executive officer and governing body of
such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 35.35 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
35.36.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of a municipal subdivision has been
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to consider enactment of the measure contained in the petition.
If the governing body fails to enact the measure without amendment, within 30
days from the date it received notification, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special
election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people,
has been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and verified, it shall be the duty of
the governing body to consider enactment of the measure contained in the
petition.
      (2)   If the governing body fails to enact the measure, without
amendment, within 30 days from the date it received notification, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a
special election called for such purpose. The date of such election shall not
be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the governing body received
notification pursuant to §
35.30.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall immediately become a valid and binding measure
of the municipality. A measure adopted by such method shall not be amended or
repealed except by two-thirds’ majority of the members of the governing body.
No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the
adoption of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 35.36 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq.;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its executive officer; and
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit prescribed in division (C) below or which
received voter approval after the filing of such petition.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects; and
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees, other than the members of the
governing body and the executive officer.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their enactment. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject
to limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification within 30 days
after such measure’s adoption or after notice is first published pursuant to
division (D) below. If the necessary number of signatures has been obtained
within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended
unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects, a municipality may, by giving notice
in the manner prescribed in this division (D), exempt all subsequent measures
relating to the same project from the referendum and limited referendum
procedures provided for in this subchapter. Notice for purposes of establishing
such exemption shall be given as follows.
      (1)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum.
      (2)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (D)(2)
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than ten days after adoption of a
measure approving the project. The right to give notice and obtain exemption
for any particular project in a manner described in this division (D)(2) is
optional, and the municipality shall not be required to give such notice for
any particular project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been adopted.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527 and 18-2528
§ 35.37 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to
reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the
referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality,
within 30 days from the date the governing body receives notification.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality, which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and verified, it shall be the
duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure
which is the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or
amend the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at a special election called for such purpose within 30 days from the
date the governing body received notification. The date of such special
election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the
governing body received notification.
   (C)   (1)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure
shall vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors.
      (2)   If the referendum measure does not receive a majority vote, the
ordinance shall immediately become effective or remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 35.38 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives
or referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 through 80-205 relating to soldiers
and sailors monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536 and 18-2537
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
   (D)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531,
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
   (E)   Any official who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in
the execution of his or her duties under such sections, shall be guilty of a
Class IV felony but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment, and the fine shall not exceed $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services; civil action
Municipal Electrical System
   
50.15   Ownership
   
50.16   Consumer’s application
   
50.17   Contracts and terms
   
50.18   Electrical service contracts
   
50.19   Licensed electrician
   
50.20   Fees and collections
   
50.21   Restricted use
   
50.22   Building moving
   
50.23   Posting signs
   
50.24   Trimming trees
   
50.25   Inspections
   
50.26   Destruction of property
   
50.27   Service wires; connection, conditions
   
50.28   Unlawful acts
   
50.29   Disconnected or discontinued
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and
remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid by the
tenth day of the month. If the tenth day falls on a weekend, then the customer
shall be given until the first Monday following the tenth day. Before the
termination, the Department of Utilities shall first give notice by first class
mail or in person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated. If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days. As to any subscriber who has previously been
identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the Department of Public
Welfare, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed
termination shall be given to the Department of Public Welfare.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department’s services for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for
each incidence of nonpayment of any due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the
reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made
by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may
discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the governing body for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer, are hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to any amendments
thereto, and are made a part hereof as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) (Ord. 457, passed 9-8-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1605 et seq.
§ 50.02 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
50.99
MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
§ 50.15 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Board of Public Works. The City Council, as the governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the
municipal electrical system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the direct management and control of the municipal electrical system
and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient
management of the electrical system subject to the supervision and review of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 50.16 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent through the Utilities Clerk. Any
applicant may be required to make a service deposit and connection fee in such
amount as has been set by resolution of the governing body upon recommendation
of the Board of Public Works and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Electricity may not be supplied to any house or building except upon
the written order of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 50.17 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality, through its electrical system, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named, in this subchapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the electrical system. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any of
the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or
her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building
or place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for
such building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
§ 50.18 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if said premises is destroyed by
fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities
Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from said
premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all electricity used on said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 50.19 LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the municipality or an electrician licensed
by the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-305) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 50.20 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority, upon resolution of the Board
of Public Works, to fix the rates to be paid by electrical consumers for the
use of electricity. All rates shall be set by ordinance and be on file for
public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities
Superintendent shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
municipality on the account of the municipal electrical system in the same
manner as the Water and Sewer Department bills are collected.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 50.21 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control, and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 50.22 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order
paid in advance the actual cost of moving said wires, and such cost shall be
paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense
of removing, changing and replacing said wires or apparatus of the electrical
system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any surplus
remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the applicant;
provided, that if in the course of moving said building or house it becomes
apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional deposit as
deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
§ 50.23 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-310) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities Superintendent and
shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe
for doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing
such trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving
proper notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the
governing body shall have the power to order cut and removed any overhanging
branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-311) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 50.26 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-313) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 SERVICE WIRES; CONNECTION, CONDITIONS.
   The municipality will run its service wires to the property line of the
owner of the property, charging only for the actual cost of materials, labor
and installation; provided, that such owner’s wires are pronounced properly put
up and safe and in good condition by the Utilities Superintendent of said
municipality, and the wiring of said premises has been done in accordance with
the requirements of the electrical code in force at the time, but under no
circumstances shall connection be made with the wires of the system of said
municipality except by an employee of the municipality. The city hereby
reserves the right at all times to have free access to the premises in which
current is being used or is to be used, to investigate and determine if wiring
has been done and if electricity is being distributed and used in the proper
manner, in conformity with the codes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-314)
§ 50.28 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No line, fixture, lamp, insulator, pole or appliance of any nature belonging
to, or a part of the electrical light system of the city shall be moved,
tampered with, removed, injured, destroyed or altered except by an employee of
the city and under the direction of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-315) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 DISCONNECTED OR DISCONTINUED.
   The city will furnish electric current in accordance with these regulations
unless prevented by unavoidable causes, but expressly reserves the right to
disconnect and discontinue said service for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   For repairs necessary to be made on any part of the circuit;
   (B)   Failure to maintain wiring in accordance with the code in force at the
time;
   (C)   For nonpayment of electric bill when due;
   (D)    For misrepresentation in relation to conditions of the wiring or the
consumption of current for light and power; and
   (E)   Failure to pay for extensions or installations as agreed.
(Prior Code, § 3-316) (Ord. 645, passed 2-4-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.01
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Containers; specifications
   
51.03   Spillage; scattering
   
51.04   Collection time; location of containers
   
51.05   Disposal system
   
51.06   Hazardous waste
   
51.07   Yard refuse
   
51.08   Special refuse
   
51.09   Dead animals
   
51.10   Manure
   
51.11   Duties and responsibilities
   
51.12   Use of alleys
   
51.13   Sanitation service fees
   
51.14   Appeals
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A solid waste container designed for mechanical dumping
that is compatible with the dumping mechanism installed on collection vehicles.
   GARBAGE. Consists of food waste from kitchens, shops and stores, including
peelings, waste from meats, fish and poultry, and such leftovers as are not
usable or suitable for keeping, and spoiled fruits, vegetables and meats, and
other perishable wastes that attend to the preparation, use, cooking or the
dealing in the storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruits or vegetables.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Includes all materials so designated as hazardous waste by
local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   SPECIAL REFUSE. All materials not included in garbage, trash or yard refuse.
Examples of SPECIAL REFUSE shall include, but not be limited to: building
materials; waste lumber; plaster; concrete; stone; brick and tile; roofing
materials; large appliances, such as washers and refrigerators; any limbs,
branches or tree trunks over one inch in diameter; and sod or dirt.
   TRASH or RUBBISH. All waste materials not included in the definition of
GARBAGE.
   YARD REFUSE. All rubbish normally accumulated in the process of caring for a
yard or garden. It shall include, but it is not limited to, leaves, grass and
hedge clippings and/or tree, hedge and shrub trimmings not to exceed one inch
in diameter. It shall not include dirt, tree, hedge or shrub branches over one
inch in diameter; bricks, pieces of cement or other unrelated items.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994)
§ 51.02 CONTAINERS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any premises within the corporate limits
shall use approved containers to contain all accumulations of garbage, trash
and yard refuse that may occur on the premises; provided, that accumulations
which, for reasons other than quantity, cannot be confined in approved
containers shall be disposed of by the property owner or user who generates the
garbage or trash.
   (B)   Containers shall be provided by the city and shall be suitable for
mechanical collection and disposal by dumping mechanisms installed on the
collection vehicles.
   (C)   Containers shall be placed in the alleys behind properties when it is
feasible to do so. When there is no alley or it is not feasible to place a
container in alleys behind properties, the property owners shall be provided
with an individual container that will be placed at the curb line by the
property owner on the waste collection day.
(Prior Code, § 4-202) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994)
§ 51.03 SPILLAGE; SCATTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to haul, transport,
handle or store garbage and trash within the corporate limits in such a manner
as to cause or allow to be strewn upon any street or alley, or public or
private property. Reasonable care shall be exercised when filling and emptying
containers to prevent such spillage or scattering.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is not a resident of the
city to bring garbage or trash into the city for disposal by placing garbage or
trash in city approved containers.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 COLLECTION TIME; LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   The collection of garbage and trash from the various premises within the
city shall be done at such times as may be designated by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. Collection services shall be rendered once weekly for residential
units. Collection services for business or commercial establishments shall be
rendered once weekly, or more frequently depending upon the volume of garbage
and trash accumulating for collection. The owner, tenant or lessee of the
premises, at the time so designated for collection, shall cause all the
containers and bundles in which garbage and trash have been accumulated to be
conveniently placed along the property line of the premises abutting the alley
at the rear thereof, or, in the event the premises do not abut upon an alley,
all such containers and bundles shall be conveniently placed along the property
line abutting the street or avenue in front of the premises, or at such other
location as may be designated by the City Clerk-Treasurer. If the containers
and bundles are placed along the property line abutting the street or avenue in
front of the premises, they shall be allowed to remain there only on the
designated day of pick up as set by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
§ 51.05 DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   The city shall operate a solid waste collection service within the city, or
as designated by the City Council, may contract with private collecting and
hauling firms to arrange for collection and disposal of all garbage and trash.
Collection service shall be available to every residential unit and every
institutional business and commercial establishment and, upon request, to every
industrial establishment within the city; provided, that the city shall not be
required to collect garbage and trash of types which the city’s collection
equipment is not designed to handle.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994)
§ 51.06 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual business or corporation to dispose
of hazardous materials by depositing those materials in the containers placed
by the city or the city’s garbage contractor. Any individual, business or
corporation placing hazardous materials in city collection containers shall be
subject to a local, state and federal regulations, including penalties.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 YARD REFUSE.
   Yard refuse shall be disposed of as any other garbage and trash. However, in
the event that federal, state or local regulations require the disposal of yard
refuse and trash in a location other than in a sanitary landfill, the city may
designate by resolution for the disposal of yard waste and refuse by separate
containers to be in compliance with any local, state or federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994)
§ 51.08 SPECIAL REFUSE.
   (A)   Special refuse shall not be placed or piled in any streets or alleys
of the city or placed in any containers designated for disposal of garbage,
trash or yard refuse. The owner of property generating the special refuse shall
be responsible for disposal of the special refuse at the landfill designated by
the city as its landfill.
   (B)   Special refuse must not be permitted to accumulate over long periods
of time but must be regularly disposed of before it becomes a nuisance or
health hazard. Storage of special refuse on property in excess of 90 days shall
be considered a violation of this chapter. In the event the special refuse is
allowed to be a nuisance or health hazard, the city shall notify the owner of
such refuse by regular mail to remove it from the premises. Upon receipt of
such notice, the owner shall be given 72 hours to remove the refuse. If the
refuse is not removed at the end of the period, the city shall issue an order
to city crews to remove the refuse, and the owner will be billed by the city of
the cost of such service. Special refuse, as defined in this chapter, may be
hauled and/or collected and/or disposed of by private persons or companies as
designated by the city. If the billings for this service are not paid by the
owner of the refuse within 60 days, the city shall assess the property in an
amount equal to the collection fees incurred by the city. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the County Treasurer of the assessment. Upon assessment
to the property for this fee, the property shall be taxed in that amount, and
the amount shall be collected as any other tax.
(Prior Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 443, passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 554, passed 9-3-1994)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed by the owner of such animals,
and if the owner of such animals cannot be found within two hours after
discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed and buried by and at
the expense of the city. Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate
limits of the city nor in or above the course of the groundwater which is used
for drinking purposes by the city or its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 4-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 MANURE.
   It shall be the duty of all property owners or tenants occupying premises
upon which manure of any kind accumulates to provide receptacles with a tight,
flyproof cover therefor, and said receptacles shall be emptied promptly and
completely when full, and the contents thereof shall be disposed of in a manner
satisfactory to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-210)
§ 51.11 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty of the sanitation crew to remove all garbage to the
city dumping grounds in accordance with pick up schedules to be established by
the City Council. Garbage shall be picked up at least once a week in
residential districts and three times per week in the business district,
weather permitting. The frequency of the pick up of garbage from commercial
institutions shall be agreed upon between the City Council and the individual
business concern, but in no case shall it be less than once a week. Burnable
and non-burnable trash or rubbish and yard refuse in residential districts
shall be picked up at least once each week on a regularly scheduled garbage
pick up date. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the sanitation crew to
leave all areas at the collection points clean and free from litter after
collections are made and to take every precaution possible to prevent garbage
or other refuse from blowing or scattering while it is being hauled to the city
dumping ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-211)
§ 51.12 USE OF ALLEYS.
   Alleys are public thoroughfares and are to be kept clear of obstructions at
all times. It shall be permissible to place a garbage can, a container for
incineration and yard and non-burnable refuse in an alley according to the
provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that this must be done in such a
way as it will not obstruct the use of the alley as a public thoroughfare at
any time; and provided, that no permanent bases or foundations for such cans or
containers and/or permanent incinerators will be permitted in the city alleys
or streets. If such structures are to be used, they must be placed within the
boundaries of the private property and immediately adjacent to the alley used
by the sanitation crew for pick up service. It shall be the duty of the
property owner adjacent to the alley to keep the alley clear of weeds and to
prevent obstruction of the alley by overhanging shrubs and trees.
(Prior Code, § 4-212)
§ 51.13 SANITATION SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The fees for sanitation service shall be set by resolution of the
governing body and kept on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
The governing body shall have the authority to establish different
classifications of users for the purpose of setting fees for sanitation
service.
   (B)   (1)   Charges for regular sanitation service shall be billed by the
city on the first day of each month and shall be due and payable on or before
the tenth day of the same month at the city business office.
      (2)   New patrons shall be charged for the first month as follows:
         (a)   If service starts between the first and tenth of the month: full
fee;
         (b)   If service starts after the tenth and through the twentieth: the
bill shall be two-thirds of the monthly rate; and
         (c)   If service starts after the twentieth of the month: the bill
shall be one-third of the monthly rate.
      (3)   All fees for sanitation service prescribed by this section, if not
paid when due, shall be a lien upon the premises and the real estate for which
the sanitation service is supplied and used and when such service charge is not
paid, such charge shall be certified to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Such charge
may be recovered by the city in an action at law and/or it may be certified to
the County Clerk to be collected and returned in the manner as other city
taxes. All charges levied by this chapter which are not paid when due shall be
deemed to be delinquent.
   (C)   No resident within the corporate limits of the city shall be exempt
from any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-213)
§ 51.14 APPEALS.
   Any person, business or property owner aggrieved by any regulation of or any
fee charged by the City Council shall have the right to appeal to the City
Council who shall have the authority to confirm, modify or revoke any
regulation or fee.
(Prior Code, § 4-214)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation
   
52.07   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.08   Water bills
   
52.09   Lien
   
52.10   Single premises
   
52.11   Restricted use
   
52.12   Fire hydrants
   
52.13   Pollution
   
52.14   Inspection
   
52.15   Police reports
   
52.16   Destruction of property
   
52.17   Tampering with equipment
   
52.18   Wellhead encroachment
   
52.19   Fluoride
   
52.20   Rates; fees; collections
Cross-Connection Control Devices; Backflow Prevention
   
52.35   Purpose; application; policy; enforcement
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Prohibitions
   
52.38   Survey and investigations
   
52.39   Protection required; type and location
   
52.40   Backflow prevention devices; installation, review
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Board of Public Works. The City Council, as the governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the
Municipal Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall
have the direct management and control of the Municipal Water Department and
shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department subject to the
supervision and review of the Board of Public Works. The governing body shall
set the rates to be charged for services rendered by resolution and shall file
a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent, through the Utilities Clerk. The
Superintendent may require any applicant to make a service deposit in such
amount as has been set by resolution of the governing body and placed on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Water may not be supplied to
any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The city may enter into a contract to sell water to consumers beyond the
corporate limits of the city when, in the judgment of the Board of Public Works
it is beneficial for the city to do so. No contract for the sale of water to
individuals outside the city limits shall run for a period in excess of 25
years.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 481, passed 3-1-1988)
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits. The rules, regulations and water rates
hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof, and the furnishing
of water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the
consumer and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound.
If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract, or any
reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt,
the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises, or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
52.99
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.01
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installation procedure. In making excavations in streets, alleys or
sidewalks for the purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving,
stones and earth must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion
the least inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No
person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at
any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After
service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to
good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open
or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent
shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred
shall be charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require
two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be
made when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are
covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed
and the service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Installation expense. The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping
the main, installing the meter and providing fixtures and labor up to and
including the stop box at the lot line of the customer. No person other than
the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent shall tap the
water main. The customer shall pay a tap fee in such sum as the governing body
shall require. The customer shall at his or her own expense bring water service
from the stop box and upon his or her own premises and shall employ a competent
plumber who shall install water service to the place of dispersement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.07 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his
or her own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the
stop box to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the
Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is
repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at
the expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be
replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense of the municipality;
provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged,
injured or destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or
neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities
Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such meter
repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting
a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer.
   (B)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request and at the
expense of the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the
test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such
test shall be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to
test any water service meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be
beyond repair, the municipality shall always have the right to place a new
meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a
consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for
water during the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly
consumption during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no
such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as
may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or
by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same
shall not pass through said meter, or while passing through said meter, to
cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Utilities Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read
water meters monthly on or about the fifteenth day of the month during which
service is used. It shall be the duty of the customers of the Water Department
to pay their bills each month. Such payment shall be made in person, by mail or
through a pre-arranged automatic withdrawal service provided by the customer’s
bank. The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Utilities Clerk to charge
and collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last
examination together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water
Department. Bills shall be due on the first day of each month and shall be
payable by the tenth of each month. Bills paid after the tenth day of each
month shall have a penalty charge of 10% of the total bill added thereto. Bills
not paid by the twentieth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent.
Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the Utilities Clerk
shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall
demand payment immediately.
   (B)   In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the Superintendent to
cut off service at any time; provided, that if the delinquent customer is a
known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
to notify the customer and the Department of Public Welfare by certified mail
of the proposed termination. The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an
additional fee, set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, in the event that water is shut off
for the nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate the municipality for the
additional hook-up necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.01
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1605 and 70-1606
§ 52.09 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify
in writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on
June 1 of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid
accounts due for water together with a description of the premises upon which
the same was used. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the
governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure, see §
50.01
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants. All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing
fires shall be painted red in color.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) (Ord. 662, passed 11-4-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 POLLUTION.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.14 INSPECTION.
    The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.15 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person, unless properly authorized by the City Council, shall connect or
disconnect, remove, repair or otherwise disturb any water meters.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 WELLHEAD ENCROACHMENT.
   There shall be no water wells allowed within a 1,000-foot radius of any
existing municipal wells servicing the municipal water supply. This shall
include new municipal wells that may be drilled in the future pursuant to Title
179, Chapter 2 of the regulations governing public water supply systems
promulgated by the State Department of Health, Division of Drinking Water and
Environmental Sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 632, passed 6-5-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-134) (Ord. 707, passed 12-9-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority by resolution to fix
the rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. No flat rates for water service shall be
quoted or allowed by the governing body. No water service shall be furnished to
any customer at a rate that is different from other customers of the same class
or type. Persons, firms or corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall
pay such rates as the Utilities Superintendent, with the approval of the
governing body, shall set. Without respect to schedule of rates for other
customers, the governing body may enter into special contracts with large
consumers of water, but never at a rate less than the cost of production;
provided, that the contract shall always provide that said large consumer shall
always pay the minimum rate for other customers and the contract shall be made
on the basis of water consumed in excess of said minimum. A meter shall always
be attached to the water service of such contract consumer and read monthly as
in the case of other classes of water consumers.
   (B)   Water service furnished to the other departments of the municipality
and to other governmental subdivisions of the state shall be measured and
billed for at such rates as the governing body shall set from time to time
without respect to the schedule of rates on file at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer, but never at rates that do not cover the cost of providing
water.
   (C)   In the event that two or more customers are supplied through the same
meter, the owner of the premises shall pay for all water consumed thereon plus
separate minimums. One bill only shall be computed for each meter.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES; BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 52.35 PURPOSE; APPLICATION; POLICY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s internal
distribution system of private water system contaminants of pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections, actual of potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination of pollution of all potable water systems.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the city, whether within or outside of the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the city’s
intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle
that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow of contaminants of pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross-connections. The consumer is
responsible for preventing contamination of the water systems within consumer’s
own premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Municipal Water Department
through the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
      (2)   (a)   The Municipal Water Department shall deny or discontinue the
water service to any premises of any consumer wherein any backflow prevention
device required by this policy is not installed, tested and maintained in a
manner acceptable to the Municipal Water Department, or if it is found that the
backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected
cross-connection exists.
         (b)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the
Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-132)
(Ord. 519, passed 5-7-1991)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises who has contracted
with the city to be supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTION. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable, or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the down stream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Municipal Water Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 52.37 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department, and as required by laws and regulations of the State Department of
Health.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system, unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Municipal Water Department and the State
Department of Health.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer shall provide access to the premises at reasonable times
to the Municipal Water Department, or its authorized representative, for the
conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the Municipal Water Department, or its authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   Inspections, tests and overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the consumer and shall be performed by an approved
tester.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.39 PROTECTION REQUIRED; TYPE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Type of protection required. The type of protection required by this
subchapter shall be of a model or construction approved by the Municipal Water
Department.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances what could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
   (B)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed in the
service connection line to a consumer’s water system within any premises where
a building that will have water service is being constructed, including any
commercial, industrial or residential building, where the service line from the
meter to the house is being repaired or reconstructed, where there is any
remodeling of a water supply or plumbing system in a structure or where, in the
judgment of the Municipal Water Department, an actual or potential hazard to
the public potable water system exists.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department,
the nature and extent of activities, or material stored on the premises, would
prevent an immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection
occur, even though such cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow
prevention device is required to be installed. This includes but is not limited
to the following situations:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the Municipal Water Department;
         (b)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
         (c)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for
cross-connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently
short notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
         (d)   Premises that although not covered by code are subject to
frequent modification which would change their status, or premises that have
had backflow code violations;
         (e)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; or
         (f)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are
handled such that if backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious
health hazard may result.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.40 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; INSTALLATION, REVIEW.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be
a model or construction approved by the Municipal Water Department.
         (a)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of
the vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
         (b)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Municipal Water Department
and shall appear on the current list of approved backflow prevention devices
established by the Water Department.
      (2)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Municipal
Water Department at the time of installation and properly maintained shall,
except for inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this subchapter, as long as the Municipal Water Department is
assured that they will satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the
existing device is moved from its present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance, or constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be
replaced by a backflow prevention device meeting the requirement of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
   (B)   Installation.
      (1)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed in a new facility, or in connection with reconstruction or
maintenance of an existing facility or if required under §
52.39(B), shall be installed at a location and in a manner and be a model and
size approved by the Municipal Water Department and shall be installed at the
expense of the water consumer.
      (2)   Backflow prevention shall be located so as to be readily accessible
for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
(Prior Code, § 3-130)
   (C)   Review.
      (1)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this policy are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced without delay at the
expense of the consumer.
      (2)   Any consumer required by the Municipal Water Department to install
backflow prevention devices or eliminate cross-connections may have such
requirement reviewed by the governing body upon written request for such
review. The decision of the governing body in such situations shall be final
for purposes of appeal to any appropriate court.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-131) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
52.17 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $3 nor more than $100, with
costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Any person who shall turn on the supply of water to a service pipe
from which the supply has been turned off by the city on account of nonpayment
of water rents or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit
to do so from the proper city authorities, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $3 nor more than $100 with costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   User charge review
   
53.005   User notification
   
53.006   Sewer Maintenance Fund
   
53.007   Collection of sewer use fees
   
53.008   Installation procedure
   
53.009   Installation expense
   
53.010   Repairs and maintenance
Public Sewers Required
   
53.025   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.026   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.027   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
53.028   Mandatory hook-up
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.040   Permit required
   
53.041   Classification; permit application, fee
   
53.042   Expense
   
53.043   Single premises
   
53.044   Use of existing sewers
   
53.045   Construction codes
   
53.046   Unlawful connection
   
53.047   Inspections
   
53.048   Excavations
Wastewaters
   
53.060   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater and the like
   
53.061   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances
   
53.062   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
53.063   Pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
53.064   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.065   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.066   Control manholes and sampling stations
   
53.067   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
   
53.068   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Enforcement
   
53.080   Inspections generally
   
53.081   Inspections; injury liability
   
53.082   Inspections; easements
   
53.083   Notice and liability
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Board of Public Works. The City Council, as the governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) of the municipal sewer system may establish a user charge system based
on actual use and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from said user charge system based on actual use shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mitchell, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage not exceeding maximum tolerance of contamination of
300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. Includes the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half-inch (one and twenty-seven
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries stormwater, surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the city, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent, through the Utilities
Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent may require any applicant to make a service
deposit in such amount as set by resolution of the governing body. Sewer
service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the written
order of the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer
service to any person outside the corporate limits. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 53.004 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The governing body shall review, at least annually, the user charge system
and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.005 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified at least annually with a regular bill of the rate
and the portion of the user charges which are attributable to wastewater
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 53.006 SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) portion of the total
sewer user charges shall be deposited in a non-lapsing Sewer Maintenance Fund,
or set of funds, and the revenues so deposited will be used only for the
purposes of defraying the OM&R costs of the treatment works.
   (B)   Funds transferred from other revenue sources to meet temporary
shortages in the OM&R accounts shall be refunded following an appropriate
adjustment in the user charges for OM&R the Sewer Maintenance Fund will have a
minimum of two primary accounts:
      (1)   An O&M account with provision for carry-over of the fiscal year end
balance to meet the overall O&M costs in the subsequent fiscal year;
      (2)    A non-lapsing sinking fund for replacement costs which accrues
funds through deposits made at least annually from OM&R use charge revenues.
The deposits shall provide adequate revenues to meet the replacement needs of
the treatment works over its service life and shall be used for no other
purpose. For purposes of maintaining said fund on a perpetual basis, the
municipality shall budget a sum of money not less than 20% of its annual
projected operation and maintenance budget for the sewer treatment works.
Fiscal year-end balances in the non-lapsing sinking fund will be carried over
to the same fund in the subsequent year.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.007 COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable at the same time and in the same
manner as water bills are due and payable. All penalties and procedures
concerning delinquent accounts with the Municipal Water Department shall also
be applicable to delinquent accounts with the Municipal Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.008 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are complete and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is
the customer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities Superintendent at the
time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations
and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Utilities
Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 53.009 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee which shall compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping
the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may
direct the customer to hire a competent plumber to tap the main. The customer
shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required
as well as the services of a competent plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
§ 53.010 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace, all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the same have been previously approved
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.025 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.027 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.028 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the
future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within 90 days after date
of official notice to do so. Private sewage disposal systems shall not be
allowed within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
53.999
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.041 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee in
an amount set by resolution of the governing body shall be paid to the
municipality at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.042 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.043 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
§ 53.044 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 53.045 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Uniform Plumbing Code or other applicable building codes as may be adopted by
the municipality from time to time.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in the applicable building code.
(Prior Code, § 3-217) (Ord. 555, passed 4-7-1994)
§ 53.046 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-218) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.047 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.048 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
WASTEWATERS
§ 53.060 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-224) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)    A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage
as evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.062 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F (0°C) and 150°F (65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (seventy-six hundredths hp metric) or greater shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (including, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (including, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (including, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-226) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.063 PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.062, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.067.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.064 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
§ 53.065 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
§ 53.066 CONTROL MANHOLES AND SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
   (B)   Method. All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
§ 53.067 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor,
by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 53.068 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-233) Penalty, see §
53.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.080 INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 53.081 INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.080, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the municipality
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
municipal employees, and the municipality shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
53.066(A).
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
§ 53.082 INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 53.083 NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
53.068 shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
53.083 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-239)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic-control signals, devices, signs
   
70.03   Signs; signals
   
70.04   Turning generally; U-turns
   
70.05   Right-of-way
   
70.06   Position of vehicle on highway
   
70.07   Traffic regulations applicable to school property
   
70.08   Lane designations; prohibitions, restrictions
   
70.09   Right, left turns; restrictions
   
70.10   Child passenger restraint system
   
70.11   Motor vehicle occupant protection systems
   
70.12   Abatement of nuisance
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.25   Speed limits
   
70.26   Reckless driving
   
70.27   Careless driving
   
70.28   Negligent driving
   
70.29   Backing
   
70.30   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.31   Passing; intersections, railroad crossings
   
70.32   Driving abreast
   
70.33   Following
   
70.34   Funeral processions
   
70.35   Crowding; front seat
   
70.36   Riding; outside vehicle
   
70.37   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
70.38   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.39   Vehicle; muffler
   
70.40   Accident; driver’s duty
   
70.41   Emergency regulations
   
70.42   Police; enforcement
   
70.43   Unnecessary noise
   
70.44   Drag racing and speed competition prohibited
Operator and Vehicle Qualifications
   
70.55   Registration
   
70.56   License plates
   
70.57   Equipment and maintenance
   
70.58   Unobstructed view
   
70.59   Vehicle loads
   
70.60   Proof of financial responsibility
   
70.61   Operator’s license
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definition and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The portion of the municipality embraced within and the
area of public streets enumerated as follows: Center Avenue from Broadway to
the Burlington Northern Railroad Crossing; 14th Street from 14th Avenue to 16th
Avenue; 13th Street from 14th Avenue to 16th Avenue; 12th Street from 13th
Avenue to Center Avenue; and the streets running parallel and north of the
Burlington Railroad tracks from 14th Avenue to 16th Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS, DEVICES, SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, upon approaching
any stop sign from the direction from which such a stop sign is read and before
passing beyond such a stop sign, unless otherwise directed by a traffic
officer, to fail to come to a complete stop, with the front wheels parallel or
even with such a stop sign.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle
approaching any intersection for which there is traffic-control signal to cause
or permit such vehicle to enter such intersection while the traffic-control
signal light facing the traffic so approaching such intersection is not green.
If the light facing approaching traffic is red or yellow, such traffic shall
stop and shall not enter such intersection until such light has changed to
green; provided, that when a traffic-control signal light is flashing yellow
only and repeatedly, traffic shall approach and enter such intersection with
extreme caution, and the general rules as to the right-of-way in such
intersection shall be applicable. It shall further be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle approaching any railroad crossing for which there is a traffic-
control signal to enter such railroad crossing while the traffic-control device
is directing the operator of the vehicle to stop. Provided further, every
operator of a vehicle, notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section,
shall comply fully with the directions of officers or orders given by a traffic
officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, whenever it shall by resolution determine that the
public safety, convenience or welfare require or warrant, by resolution,
provide for the placing of stop signs or other signs, signals, standards or
mechanical devices in any street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction
for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution
shall describe the portion of the street or alley wherein traffic is to be
regulated or prohibited; the regulation or prohibition; the location where such
sign, signal, standard or mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when
such regulation or prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such regulation or
prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-202) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.04 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall make a U-turn, which is defined as a vehicle making a
turn to proceed in the opposite direction, upon any curve or upon the approach
to or near the crest of a grade where the vehicle cannot be seen by the driver
of any other vehicle approaching from either direction within 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
   (B)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and,
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in the portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
(Ord. 484, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 703, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,159
§ 70.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road or
driveway, shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 70.06 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Generally. Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets
excepted, the driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the
roadway. In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at
least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
   (B)   Passing. A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center line
of the highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
   (C)   Slow vehicles. Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible
to the curb on the right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage on
the left.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,131, 60-6,133 and 60-6,136
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   All traffic regulations adopted by the municipality shall be
applicable to the areas known as the Junior-Senior High School property and the
Grade School property which are described as:
      (1)   Lot 7, Subdivision of Block 3, Barthuly First Addition to the city,
according to the recorded plat thereof;
      (2)   All unplatted land including Tax Lots 63 and 64A, bounded on the
north by Barthuly First Addition; bounded on the east by 16th Avenue; bounded
on the south by Logan’s Addition and bounded on the west by 19th Avenue (Agate
Highway) within the city; and
      (3)   Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Logan’s Addition and Lots 2 and 3, Block 4,
Logan’s Addition to the city, according to the recorded plat thereof, Tax Lots
5 and 6, unplatted lands within the city.
   (B)   The governing body finds that such areas are within the municipality
and are owned or are under the control of the school district and are semi-
public places.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)
§ 70.08 LANE DESIGNATIONS; PROHIBITIONS, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Double yellow line; crossing; prohibited; exceptions. It shall be
unlawful for any vehicle at any time to cross the double yellow line designated
in the previous section, except as permitted for left turns into private
driveways along the four-lane street.
(Prior Code, § 5-215)
   (B)   White line; driving astraddle; restrictions. It shall be unlawful to
cause or permit any vehicle at any time to travel astride the white line
dividing traffic lanes as described herein, except as may be necessary for the
purpose of changing from one lane to the other.
(Prior Code, § 5-216)
   (C)   Overtaking vehicles; requirements. A vehicle traveling on a four-lane
street may overtake another vehicle traveling in such street in the same
direction to either the left or right of the vehicle overtaken, provided such
overtaking can be accomplished without crossing the center double yellow line.
(Prior Code, § 5-217)
(Ord. 492, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 RIGHT, LEFT TURNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to turn to its right into an
intersection, street or private driveway from the inside lane of any four-lane
street, or to turn left into an intersecting street or private driveway from
the outside lane of any four-lane street.
(Prior Code, § 5-218) (Ord. 492, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to
have seat safety belts, shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported in such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213, as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed as of the effective date of
this section and which is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 16 years of age
being transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Provided, however, this section does not apply to taxicabs, mopeds,
motorcycles and any other vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year
model or earlier which is not equipped with a safety belt.
   (B)   Whenever any physician licensed to practice medicine in the state
determines through accepted medical procedures, that use of a child passenger
restraint system by a particular child would be harmful by reason of the
child’s weight, physical condition or other medical reason, the provisions of
division (A) above shall be waived. The driver of any vehicle transporting such
a child shall carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written
statement of the physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for
such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in Neb. RS
60-6,272, shall not be subject to the requirements of division (A) above when
operating such authorized emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (D)   All persons being transported in a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle’s passenger restraint systems and safety belts.
(Prior Code, § 5-219) (Ord. 516, passed 3-5-1991; Ord. 670, passed 9-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
§ 70.11 MOTOR VEHICLE OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM. A system utilizing a lap belt, a shoulder
belt or any combination of belts installed in a motor vehicle which:
         (a)   Restrains drivers and passengers; and
         (b)   Conforms to federal motor vehicle safety standards or to the
federal motor vehicle safety standards for passenger restraint systems
applicable for the motor vehicle’s model year.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as 1973 year model
or later operated on any highway, road or street in the state, except farm
tractors and implements of husbandry designed primarily or exclusively for use
in agricultural operations, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds and buses,
shall be equipped with an occupant protection system of a type which:
      (1)   Meets the requirements of 49 C.F.R. §§ 571.208, 571.209 and 571.210
as such regulations currently exist or as the regulations existed when the
occupant protection system was originally installed by the manufacturer; or
      (2)   If the occupant protection system has been replaced, meets the
requirements of 49 C.F.R. §§ 571.208, 571.209 and 571.210 that applied to the
originally installed occupant protection system, or of a more recently issued
version of such regulations. The purchaser of any such vehicle may designate
the make or brand of or furnish such occupant protection system to be
installed.
(Prior Code, § 5-220) (Ord. 669, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 70.12 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.25 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall drive a vehicle on any street or alley
right-of-way at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then
existing. Any person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding street or alley and when special hazards
exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or
street conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
   (B)   Speed; electronic detection.
      (1)   Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based
upon the visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
radio microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as
competent evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal
proceeding when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the municipality
may offer in evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic
speed measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor
vehicle, the municipality shall prove the following:
         (a)   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
         (b)   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and
under such conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or
outside interference;
         (c)   The person operating such device and interpreting such
measurement was qualified by training and experience to properly test and
operate the device; and
         (d)   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the
measuring device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an
arrest being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working
order.
      (2)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a
warrant under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer
shall have observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the
radio microwaves or other electronic device, or had received a radio message
from the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the
radio microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on
such a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after
the speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded and must include a description
of the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
(Ord. 448, passed 11-6-1984; Ord. 459, passed 12-3-1985) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,192
§ 70.26 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as
to indicate an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property shall be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be
punished as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
   (B)   Willful. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to
indicate a willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of willful, reckless driving, and shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182 and 60-6,213 through 60-6,218
§ 70.27 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,212) (Prior Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 70.29 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, that a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,169
§ 70.30 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,166
§ 70.31 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS, RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection or
railroad crossing, if such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to
the left of the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,136
§ 70.32 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 70.33 FOLLOWING.
   (A)   Distance. The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)
   (B)   Fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-312)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,140 and 60-6,183
§ 70.34 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying United States
mails shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the
permission of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,140
§ 70.35 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   Front seat occupancy of any automobile while the same is in the process of
being started or in motion within the corporate limits of the city shall be
limited to one driver and in addition not more than two other persons over the
age of 12 years. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
upon any street of the city when such person has in his or her lap, or in his
or her embrace, another person, package of other encumbrance which prevents the
free and unhampered operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-314) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. R 60-6,179
§ 70.36 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-315) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,179
§ 70.37 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cling or attach himself or herself to
any exterior part of any motor vehicle that is in motion on any street within
the city, or to hitch, tie on or otherwise connect any bicycle, coaster wagon,
toy sled or other toy vehicle to such motor vehicle. It shall also be unlawful
for the driver of any such motor vehicle knowingly to permit any person to do
any of such prohibited acts or to start, operate or continue in motion such
vehicle knowing that any person is clinging or attached to any exterior part of
such vehicle, or that there is hitched, tied or otherwise connected to such
vehicle any bicycle, coaster wagon, toy sled or other toy vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-316) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 70.38 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,178
§ 70.39 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a muffler cut-out on any
motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-318) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286 and 60-6,371
§ 70.40 ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name, address and the registration number of his or
her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license, to the
person struck, or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the
public highway, private road or private drive, resulting in damage to property
shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident; and
      (2)   Give his or her name, address and the registration number of his or
her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the
owner of the property struck, or the driver or occupants of any other vehicle
involved in the collision.
(Prior Code, § 5-319)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-696 and 60-697
§ 70.41 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies. It shall be unlawful for any person
to violate such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5-321) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.42 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic, and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-322)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-683
§ 70.43 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   No persons shall make or cause to be made any unnecessary noise by squealing
or screeching tires or with any signal device, or to use the same except as a
road signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-323) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,285
§ 70.44 DRAG RACING AND SPEED COMPETITION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on any street, alley or roadway in any
race, speed competition or contest, drag race or acceleration contest, test of
physical endurance, exhibition of speed or acceleration, or for the purpose of
making a speed record, and no person shall in any manner participate in any
such race, competition, test or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-324) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,195
OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
§ 70.55 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Operator and vehicle license.
      (1)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street or
public highway without having first registered the vehicle as provided by the
laws of the state, and such vehicle shall have the registration number plates,
furnished by the state or county, displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and
place provided by the laws of the state.
      (2)   If a citation is issued to an owner of a vehicle for violation of
this section and the owner, within ten days of issuance of the citation,
properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance, pays all taxes
and fees due and provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting
attorney, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Trailer. When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in
use upon the municipal streets, such trailer shall carry a registration number
and rear lights as required of any other motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
(Ord. 552, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-323 and 60-4,186
§ 70.56 LICENSE PLATES.
   The license plates, required on every motor vehicle by laws of the state, or
by laws of any other state while such vehicle is operated within the corporate
limits, shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust or other blurring matter
so they will be plainly visible at all times and shall be attached in such
manner as to be clearly readable at a distance of 100 feet, and under no
circumstances shall they be obstructed by any portion of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-399
§ 70.57 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or public highways
of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control
the movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two separate means
of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and
sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices, and
shall have from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise,
two or more whitish lights on the front thereof, and one on each side, which
lights and all other lighting devices, including taillights, shall be in
compliance with the laws of the state. No person shall operate any vehicle
which is equipped with an electric light or lights that confuse travelers or
pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within the corporate limits. Every motor
vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display clearance lights as
required by the laws of the state. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in
good working order; provided, that motorcycles need only be equipped with one
brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet; provided,
that no vehicle, except herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any
person use upon a vehicle, any siren or horn otherwise than as a reasonable
warning; nor shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to
make any unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and provided further that, every
Police, Fire Department and fire patrol vehicle, ambulance or other authorized
emergency vehicle used in emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren
or whistle of the type approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,235, 60-6,244 and
60-6,285
§ 70.58 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street,
any vehicle with a sign, poster or other non-transparent material upon the
front windshield, side windows or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than
a certificate or paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on
a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for removing rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,254, 60-6,255 and 60-6,256
§ 70.59 VEHICLE LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length
and width shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the extreme
rear end of such load.
(Prior Code, § 5-406)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand,
gravel, rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as
to prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 5-407)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243 and 60-6,304
§ 70.60 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning a motor vehicle licensed in the
state to operate such motor vehicle within the city unless such person, at all
times during such operation, has in the motor vehicle current and effective
proof of financial responsibility as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-408) (Ord. 483, passed 6-7-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
without first obtaining a motor vehicle operator’s license as provided by the
laws of the state. No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or
alley during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-409) (Ord. 552, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person convicted of violating the provisions of §§
70.25 through
70.41, relative to the duty to stop in the event of certain accidents, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $100. In addition thereto the court may, in
its discretion, revoke the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of the person so
convicted for a period not to exceed one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-320)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this traffic code, set forth at full
length herein or incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply or for each separate incident constituting a
violation.
      (2)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command
of a citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
(Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-696 and 60-698
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking generally
   
71.02   Designation
   
71.03   Areas
   
71.04   Obstructing alley
   
71.05   Alleys
   
71.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
71.07   Curbs, painted
   
71.08   Street intersections
   
71.09   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.10   Motor vehicle parking over fire days prohibited
   
71.11   Owner of vehicle responsible for parking when driver unknown
   
71.12   Emergency vehicles
   
71.13   Abandoned automobiles
   
71.14   Automobile pound
   
71.15   Unattended vehicles
   
71.16   Engine brakes prohibited
Parking for Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
71.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
71.33   Permit issuance
   
71.34   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
71.35   Permit contents; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
71.36   Permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
71.37   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
71.38   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
   
71.39   Removal of unauthorized vehicles; penalty
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least three feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
(Prior Code, § 5-601) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 71.02 DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 71.03 AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than any period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction
of any officer or traffic-control signal or device in any of the following
places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control device or signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (9)   Tractor trailer rigs or semi-tractors in a residential area except
for active loading and unloading of freight; or
      (10)   Within 20 feet of any intersection whether on the public right-of-
way or on private property.
(Prior Code, § 5-603) (Ord. 463, passed 6-3-1986; Ord. 480, passed 3-1-1988;
Ord. 484, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 523, passed 9-10-1991; Ord. 682, passed 4-4-
2006; Ord. 695, passed 6-5-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to allow
the vehicle to be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading or
unloading, and then only shall such vehicle be parked during the time necessary
to load or unload which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
Every vehicle while loading or unloading in any alley shall be parked in such a
manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to tow away any vehicle obstructing or
parked in any alley located in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, resident or property owner of
the city to allow any obstruction to be placed in an alley located in the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-604) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-608) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,116
§ 71.07 CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Department to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person, firm
or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside,
or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-609) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.08 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where said
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,116
§ 71.09 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, excepting in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.10 MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING OVER FIRE DAYS PROHIBITED.
   No licensed motor vehicle shall be continuously parked upon any street
within the city for more than five days consecutively. The city police are
authorized to impound any vehicle parked in violation of this section and keep
the same in his or her possession until called for by the owner. Said motor
vehicle shall not be surrendered to the owner thereof until all fines and costs
assessed against him or her have been paid, and in addition thereto, until the
owner shall have paid the City Clerk-Treasurer the cost of transportation of
the vehicle, together with all storage charges against the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 OWNER OF VEHICLE RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKING WHEN DRIVER UNKNOWN.
   If any vehicle is found upon any street or alley in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter regulating the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles, and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-614) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-615)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 71.13 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the municipal
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property. An automobile shall be
deemed to be abandoned if left unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking
is legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (B)   The title to any automobile so abandoned, which at the time of such
abandonment has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the municipality. In the event the
automobile is licensed for the current year or is of a wholesale value of over
$100, the municipal police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner
of the automobile by sending a notice to the registered owner, if known; by
sending an inquiry to the county it is registered in, if the owner is unknown;
or by contacting the Director of Motor Vehicles, if the car is without license
plates and the owner is unknown. If notified by the Director of Motor Vehicles
that a lien or mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be sent to
the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required
to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle. If the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee is known and does not claim the automobile within five
days after the date when the notice was mailed, or upon receiving word from the
Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is unknown, title will immediately
vest in the municipality and the automobile may be sold. Any proceeds from the
sale of the automobile, less any expenses incurred by the municipality in such
removal, storage and sale, shall be held without interest in a separate account
for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two years. If not
claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid into the
General Fund.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or
municipally owned property; and private property shall mean any privately owned
property which is not included within the definition of public property.
(Prior Code, § 5-616) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 71.14 AUTOMOBILE POUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a pound for the impounding of
motor vehicles to be known as the automobile pound. The Police Chief is hereby
empowered and directed to locate such pound on such portion or portions of
streets or grounds of the city as may seem appropriate for such purpose, and
may change the location of such pound whenever such change appears to be
necessary or desirable. A police officer may remove and convey, or cause to be
removed and conveyed by towing or otherwise, to the automobile pound any
vehicle that has been parked or left standing in any street, alley, municipal
off-street parking lot or other public way or place of the city in violation of
any provision of this chapter. This remedy shall be cumulative to and not
exclusive of other remedies provided by this chapter. No vehicle so impounded
shall be discharged or removed from the pound except upon payment by the owner,
driver or operator of such vehicle of a fee of $1 to the person in charge of
such pound, for each day such vehicle has been in such pound, and a reasonable
towing charge for removal of such vehicle to such pound, cost that the storage
company charges the city will also be passed on to the owner of the vehicle.
   (B)   When the owner or driver of the vehicle so impounded presents himself
or herself at the pound to claim such vehicle, it shall be the duty of the
officer in charge to inform such person of the nature and circumstances of the
alleged violation on account of which such vehicle has been impounded. If such
owner or driver executed an affidavit denying the facts upon which the
impounding of such vehicle has been based, and protesting against the payment
of the above-enumerated fees, there shall be given him or her by the officer in
charge of such pound, upon payment by such person of such charges a receipt
therefor marked “Paid Under Protest.” In such case, it shall be the duty of
such officer having knowledge of the facts forthwith to make complaint in the
County Court, charging the owner or driver of such vehicle with the violation
or violations for which such vehicle was impounded. Such charge shall be tried
and determined by the County Court in the same manner as other violations of
city ordinances are tried and determined by such court. If upon such trial such
person is found by the court to be not guilty, it shall be the duty of the
Police Chief to refund to such person the fees paid under protest.
   (C)   All vehicles impounded and remaining in such pound for a period of 60
days or more, which include the notice period described in this section, may be
sold to pay the storage charges, towing charges and fee of $1 to the person in
charge of such pound. Before an impounded vehicle is sold, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify the registered owner or owners of the vehicle of the
time and place of the sale. Notice to the owner or owners shall be given by
mailing a registered letter, with a return address marked thereon, addressed to
the owner or owners at the address shown upon the registration certificate, if
any, of the impounded vehicle, and stating the time and place of sale. Such
notice shall be mailed at least 30 days before the date of sale. In addition to
the notice by registered letter to the owner or owners of the impounded vehicle
as provided in this section, there shall be a notice of sale given by
publication for two successive weeks in a legal newspaper, of general
circulation in the community in which such sale is to be held, or by posting
such notice in not less than three conspicuous places in such community. Such
notice of sale shall state the name of the owner or owners or the person or
persons on whose account the vehicle is held, the make, model, type, serial
number and motor number of the vehicle, and the time and place of sale. The
sale shall be held not less than 15 days after the first publication or posting
of such notice.
   (D)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less the removal
and storage charges and expenses, including publication fees and attorneys’
fees, if any, of sale, shall be held by the City Clerk-Treasurer, without
interest, for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two
years. If not claimed within such two-year period, such proceeds shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city.
   (E)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of the name of the owner of each
vehicle impounded, the number of the registration plate of such vehicle, the
nature and circumstances of each violation involved and the disposition of each
case.
   (F)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle shall be removed nor the city shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent, or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (G)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle and the expense,
if any, of sale thereof. If such costs and expense exceed the proceeds realized
upon a sale of the vehicle, such owner shall be liable to the city for the
excess.
   (H)   A charge filed as provided in this section shall be tried and
determined by the County Court in the same manner as other charges of
violations of ordinances of the city are tried and determined. In addition, if
the person charged is found by the court to be guilty, the impounded vehicle
shall be sold as provided in this section. If, on the other hand, the person is
found by the court to not be guilty, the automobile shall be released to such
person, and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refund to such person the amount, if
any, of removal and storage charges which such person has paid under protest.
   (I)   Nothing in this section pertaining to the impounding of vehicles shall
be construed as superseding any other section of this code concerning the
proper parking or operation of vehicles of any character in the city, nor shall
the impounding of any vehicle and the collection of the charges and expenses in
connection therewith, as provided in this section, prevent or preclude
prosecution for the violation of any other provisions of any other section
concerning the parking or operation of vehicles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-617)
§ 71.15 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a vehicle shall allow such vehicle to
stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and
stopping the motor vehicle, and, when such vehicle is standing upon any grade,
without turning the front wheels of such vehicle toward the curb or side of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 5-620) (Ord. 552, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use engine brakes on motor vehicles,
tractors, semi-tractors or trucks within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-631) (Ord. 635, passed 8-7-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating the use of parking spaces designated for use by
handicapped or disabled persons, or the obstruction of any wheelchair ramps
constructed or created in accordance and in conformity with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited as described in Neb.
RS 60-331.02 for no longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-621) (Ord. 441, passed 2-7-1984; Ord. 442, passed 3-20-1984;
Ord. 484, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 504, passed 6-5-1990; Ord. 512, passed 12-4-
1990; Ord. 532, passed 5-5-1992; Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
§ 71.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737. In addition to such sign,
the space may also be indicated by blue paving on the curb or edge of the paved
portion of the street adjacent to the space.
(Prior Code, § 5-622) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
§ 71.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose
vehicles display the permit; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
(Prior Code, § 5-623) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
§ 71.33 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall take an application from a
handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
or his or her parent, legal guardian or foster parent, for a permit which will
entitle the holder thereof, or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose
of transporting such holder, to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such spaces. For the purpose of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of law.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician assistant or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.34, but not both.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-624) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
§ 71.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall take an application from any
person for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a
person driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, to park in
those spaces provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person, and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of law.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Clerk-Treasurer that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (D)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.33, but not both.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-625) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.35 PERMIT CONTENTS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility
of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size,
configuration, color and construction and contain such information as specified
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United States
Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 23
C.F.R. part 1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, the permit
shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
71.37. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit fee.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Clerk-
Treasurer. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period
for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-626) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,113.04
§ 71.36 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or
disabled parking prior to September 10, 1993, shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. All permits
authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or disabled parking after
September 9, 1993, and before September 10, 1995, shall be issued for a period
of three years. Upon the expiration of a permanent permit, it may be renewed
pursuant to the provisions of this section and §§
71.33,
71.34,
71.35 or
71.37. After September 9, 1995, all permanently issued permits authorized by
this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending September 30 of the third
year following the date of issuance and shall expire on that date, except that
an application for the renewal of a permit filed with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer within 30 days of the date after its expiration shall be deemed to
have been filed prior to the date of its expiration. The possession of an
expired but otherwise valid handicapped parking permit with 30 days following
the date of its expiration shall serve as a full and complete defense in any
action for a handicapped parking infraction resulting from the absence of a
handicapped parking permit arising during that 30-day period.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter after September 9, 1995,
for temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period
ending not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed
for a one-time period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there
shall be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or
disability and the required permit fee.
   (C)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2 of which shall
be retained by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and $1 of which shall be forwarded
on a quarterly basis to the State Treasurer for credit to the Department of
Motor Vehicles Cash Fund.
(Prior Code, § 5-627) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,113.05
§ 71.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter. No person
shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit. Any violation of this section shall
be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the
expiration of such period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon payment of
the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-628) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,113.06
§ 71.38 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person, or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 or 60-3,113.03, the
complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of
issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit
included on the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the
recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped
parking permit issued under Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 or 60-3,113.03 and that the
peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-629) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01 and 18-1741.02
§ 71.39 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the
municipality providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an
off-street parking facility may cause the removal, from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a
sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in
zone.
   (B)   Anyone who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space which has
been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit, or when
the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or
permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space, shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as
defined in §
71.30 and shall be subject to the procedures set forth in §
71.38 and the penalty provided for in §
71.99. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty
and subject to the penalty provided for in §
71.99.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-630) (Ord. 606, passed 2-3-1998) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who abandons an automobile as defined in §
71.13 shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-616)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Bicycles
   
72.02   Motorcycles
   
72.03   Minibikes
   
72.04   Skateboard, skates, rollerblades
   
72.05   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 BICYCLES.
   (A)   License. Anyone wishing to operate a bicycle within the corporate
limits shall make an application to the municipal police on or before January 1
of each year. A license shall then be issued by the municipal police upon the
payment of a fee of $1 per year. Said license shall then be attached to the
frame of the bicycle in a substantial manner. The removal of such tag, except
by the proper authorities, shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other
public highway of this municipality with another person on the handlebars, or
in any position in front of the operator.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper,
but every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
      (3)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
      (4)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one half hour after sunset and one half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to such bicycle and properly lighted, or without a yellow, or
red light reflector attached to, and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof.
The headlight shall give a clear, white light.
      (5)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
      (6)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or
other public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the
right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
      (7)   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District.
(Prior Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60,680(h), 60-6,315, 60-6,317 and 60-6,318
§ 72.02 MOTORCYCLES.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one, and not more than two headlights, plainly
visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 500
feet to the rear thereof; provided, that said lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of the statutes of the state.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219) (Prior Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 MINIBIKES.
   (A)   Unlawful operation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any
street or highway within the corporate limits of the municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, MINIBIKE means a two-wheel motor
vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an
engine rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-504)
   (B)   Emergencies and parades. Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section during any public emergency or while being used in parades by
regularly organized units of any recognized charitable, social, educational or
community service organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-505)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347, 60-6,348 and 60-6,352
§ 72.04 SKATEBOARD, SKATES, ROLLERBLADES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ROLLERBLADES. Included within the definition of the term SKATES.
      SKATEBOARD. A single platform mounted on wheels, which is propelled
solely by human power and which has no mechanism or other device with which to
steer or control the movement or direction of the platform.
      SKATES. Any device worn on the feet or shoes which has one or more wheels
attached and which is propelled solely by human power.
   (B)   Any person operating skates or a skateboard upon a public sidewalk
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and when involved in a collision
with a pedestrian shall be rebuttable presumed to have been negligent.
(Prior Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 565, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 570, passed 9-7-1995)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 50 inches
or less in width, has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less, travels on four or
more non-highway tires and is designed for operator use only with no
passengers, or is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the
operator and one passenger.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 74
inches in width or less, is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in
length, has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and travels on four or more
non-highway tires. A UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-
speed vehicles.
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated
within the city limits on streets and highways, other than a controlled access
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes, only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset, if the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions
of this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful to operate a three-wheeled all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle within the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the operator of an all-terrain vehicle within
the city to have a passenger on the vehicle.
      (4)   It is unlawful to operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on sidewalks within the city, except for the purpose of removing snow
and/or debris from the sidewalk.
      (5)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be
operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph and shall observe posted speed limits
if lower than 25 mph.
   (C)   Equipment.
      (1)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on. Whenever an all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle is operated within the city, there shall be no
trailer attached to the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, and all
cargo must be securely attached to the vehicle in such a manner that the cargo
remains secured without any assistance of the operator.
      (2)   Every all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall be equipped
with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than six feet above ground
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The safety flag shall be triangular in
shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in
color. Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall also be
equipped with:
         (a)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
         (b)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition;
         (c)   Turn signals and hazard lights that operate;
         (d)   Operational seatbelts for the operator and any passenger and no
event can the number of utility-type vehicle passengers exceed the number of
seatbelts manufactured for the utility-type vehicle; and
         (e)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
      (3)   The operator of any all-terrain vehicle and the operator and any
passenger of an utility-type vehicle must wear a helmet.
   (D)   Prohibited. No person shall:
      (1)   Turn an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle without using
turn signals prior to making a turn;
      (2)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
      (4)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified, except for use in a closed-course
competition event.
   (E)   Operator’s license. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle must be at least 18 years old and shall have obtained and
have a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit from the State
Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Operator’s License
Act, being Neb. RS 60-462 et seq.
   (F)   Liability insurance coverage. Any person operating an all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall have liability insurance coverage for the
all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle while operating the all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle within the city. The person operating the all-
terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such
request. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any all-terrain vehicle
or utility-type vehicle within the city until the owner has demonstrated proof
of insurance to the Police Department and obtained an insurance decal from the
Police Department for the current year. The Police Department will issue a
decal for the current year that must be affixed to the all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle in a conspicuous place. The insurance decal shall be for a
calendar year and will not be prorated. The city will charge a fee of $50 for a
calendar year for the issuance of the decal. This fee may be amended from time
to time.
   (G)   Parades. All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be
operated on streets and highways without complying with divisions (D) through
(G) above while in parades which have been authorized by the state, any
department, board, commission or political subdivision of the state.
   (H)   Highway use.
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be
operated on any controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes, however the vehicles shall cross Highway 26 only at the intersection of
Center Avenue where there is a traffic-control signal.
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may cross a highway
other than a controlled access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes
if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or avenue and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or avenue;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing shall be only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (I)   Accidents. If an accident results from the operation of the all-
terrain vehicle or the utility-type vehicle, including accidents which cause
the death of any person or the injury of any person or which requires treatment
of the person by a physician, the operator of each all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the accident
in the same manner as provided by Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 775, passed 2-6-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.05 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99, unless otherwise provided for in this §
72.05. In addition to any penalties for violation, the Municipal Police
Department may impound any all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle when
operated in violation of state law or municipal code, in the same situation as
any violation in connection with a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 775, passed 2-6-2018)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Restricted turns
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Stop signs
      
V.   Crossing guards
      
VI.   Four-lane streets
      
VII.   Truck routes
      
VIII.   Use of roller devices
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with this section, the limits set forth in this section shall be
maximum lawful speed, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any street or
alley at a speed in excess of the limits set forth herein.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits hereunder are:
Area Speed Limit
Area                                                             Speed Limit
Broadway (State Highway 26)                                      30 mph
19th Avenue (State Highway 29)                                   30 mph
Any residential district                                         25 mph
Any business district, except Center Avenue between Broadway and 20 mph
the Burlington Northern right-of-way
The business district on Center Avenue between Broadway and the  15 mph
Burlington Northern Railroad right-of-way
Any alley within the city limits                                 10 mph
Tenth Street between Spring Creek Road and Highway 29            40 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 5-301) (Ord. 448, passed 11-6-1984; Ord. 459, passed 12-3-1985)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED TURNS.
   No vehicle shall make a U-turn at the following street locations when posted
in both directions on signs reading “no U-turn.”
 
Area                                                  Penalty
12th Avenue between Broadway Street and 13th Street   As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
13th Avenue between Broadway Street and 13th Street   As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
14th Street between 11th Avenue and 14th Avenue       As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
18th Street between 16th Avenue and 19th Avenue       As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
19th Avenue between 17th Street and 21st Street       As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
Center Avenue between Broadway Street and 12th Street As set forth in §
                                                      70.99
 
(Prior Code, § 5-204) (Ord. 484, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 703, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets and alleys are established as one-way.
 
Street/Alley                                Direction      Penalty
17th Avenue from Broadway to 13th Street    North to south As set forth in §
                                                           70.99
Alley within the block bounded by Center                   As set forth in §
Avenue, 16th Avenue, 13th Street and 12th   North to south 70.99
Street
Alley between Center Avenue and 14th Avenue North          As set forth in §
and 12th Street and 13th Street                            70.99
East/west alley in the block bounded by                    As set forth in §
Center Avenue, Broadway and 13th Street and West           70.99
12th Street, west of the north/south alley
 
(Prior Code, § 5-210) (Ord. 441, passed 2-7-1984; Ord. 501, passed 3-19-1990)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs shall be placed at the following locations and shall be so
situated as to be read and obeyed by traffic approaching from the following
directions. The stop signs shall be situated as nearly as possible to the right
curb line of the following intersections.
Street Direction of Sign
Street                                  Direction of Sign
11th Avenue and 13th Street             Four-way stop
intersection
11th Avenue and 14th Street             Four-way stop
intersection
12th Avenue and 13th Street             Approaching from north and south
intersection
10th Street and 19th Avenue             Approaching from west
intersection
11th Street and 19th Avenue             Approaching from west
intersection
12th Street and 10th Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
12th Street and 11th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
12th Street and 12th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
12th Street and 13th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
12th Street and 14th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
13th Street and 11th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
13th Street and 22nd Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
14th Street and 12th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
14th Street and 13th Avenue             Four-way stop
intersection
14th Street and 14th Avenue             Approaching from east and west
intersection
13th Street and 14th Avenue             Approaching from east and west
intersection
Center Avenue and 11th Street           Approaching from east and west
intersection
Center Avenue and 12th Street           Approaching from east and west
intersection
Center Avenue and 13th Street           Approaching from east and west
intersection
Center Avenue and 14th Street           Approaching from east and west
intersection
Center Avenue: Good Will MKT. Exit onto Approaching from west (2 signs)
Center Avenue
13th Street and 16th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
13th Street and 17th Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
13th Street and 18th Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
13th Street and 19th Avenue or Highway  Approaching from east and west
29 West
13th Street and 20th Avenue             Approaching from south
intersection
14th Street and 18th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
14th Street and 17th Avenue             Approaching from east and west
intersection
14th Street and 16th Avenue             Approaching from north and south
intersection
14th Street and 19th Avenue or Highway  Approaching from east
29
17th Street and 13th Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
19th Avenue alley between Broadway and  Approaching from east
17th street
19th Avenue or Highway 29 and 17th      Approaching from east and west
Street intersection
19th Avenue or Highway 29 and 18th      Approaching from east
Street intersection
19th Avenue or Highway 29 between 17th  Approaching from north and south
Street and 19th Street intersection
19th Avenue or Highway 29 Exit to High  Approaching from east
School parking lot
19th Avenue or Highway 29 and dirt road
entrance area to High School parking    Approaching from east
lot, running east and west
19th Avenue or Highway 29 and 22nd      Approaching from east
Street intersection
22nd Avenue and 17th Street             Approaching from east and west
intersection
22nd Avenue and 18th Street             Approaching from west
intersection
22nd Avenue and Broadway intersection   Approaching from south along 22nd
                                        Avenue
22nd Avenue and Fair Ground Road        Approaching from west
intersection
Broadway and exit road out of           Approaching from west
fairgrounds onto Broadway
Broadway and alley at southwest corner  Approaching from north
of rest home onto Broadway
Broadway and 22nd Avenue intersection   Approaching from north
Broadway and 19th Avenue or Highway 29  Approaching from north and south
Broadway and alley between 19th Avenue  Approaching from south
or Highway 29 and 18th Avenue
Broadway and 18th Avenue intersection   Approaching from south
Broadway and 17th Avenue intersection   Approaching from south
Broadway and alley between 17th Avenue  Approaching from south
and 16th Avenue
Broadway and Center Avenue intersection Approaching from north and south
Broadway and 14th Avenue intersection   Approaching from south
Broadway and alley between 14th Avenue  Approaching from south
and 13th Avenue
Broadway and 13th Avenue intersection   Approaching from north and south
Broadway and 12th Avenue intersection   Approaching from south
Broadway and alley between 12th Avenue  Approaching from south
and 11th Avenue
Broadway and 11th Avenue intersection   Approaching from north and south
Broadway and Experiment Farm Road (one- Approaching from north
way road) leading onto Broadway
Broadway and 10th Avenue intersection   Approaching from south
Broadway and 12th Avenue intersection   Approaching from west
onto Highway 26
10th Street and 11th Street (dirt road) Approaching from west
where 11th Street meets 10th Street
10th Street and 14th Avenue             Approaching from north
intersection
10th Street and Center Avenue           Approaching from north
intersection
10th Street and 19th Avenue or Highway  Approaching from east
29 intersection
14th Street and 14th Street             Approaching from north and south
intersection
Center Avenue and the alley between     Approaching from east
Broadway and 14th Street
 
(Prior Code, § 5-203) (Ord. 449, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 454, passed 9-8-1985;
Ord. 475, passed 12-1-1987; Ord. 485, passed 6-13-1988; Ord. 501, passed 3-19-
1990; Ord. passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 525, passed 9-10-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. CROSSING GUARDS.
   (A)   The Municipal School District is hereby authorized to place crossing
guards at the following pedestrian crossings locations.
 
Location
Adjacent to the corner of 13th Avenue and Broadway Street
At the intersection of 13th Avenue and 14th Street
South of the bus driveway on 12th Avenue
 
   (B)   All of these locations shall be within the city. All crossing guards
shall be volunteers or school district employees. The crossing guards shall
operate under the direction and control of the Superintendent of Schools and
will receive technical advice from the Chief of Police of the city.
   (C)   All crossing guards shall be vested with the authority to stop traffic
at the intersections to which they are assigned. The crossing guards shall
assist school children as they may be crossing the streets at their assigned
intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or
signal of any crossing guard, notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or
signal device which may have been placed at such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-212) (Ord. 702, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. FOUR-LANE STREETS.
   (A)   The following parts of streets are hereby made and declared to be
four-lane streets and shall have two contiguous lanes for traffic moving in
each direction.
 
Location
Broadway, running east and west within the city limits
 
   (B)   A double yellow line shall be painted along approximately the center
of each such part of a street, except where there are traffic islands. A white
line shall be painted between the contiguous lanes for traffic moving in the
same direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-214) (Ord. 492, passed 6-6-1989)
SCHEDULE VII. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Truck traffic for all trucks in excess of one ton gross vehicle weight
shall be prohibited on all streets within the city limits of the city except
for trucks going to a local destination within the city limits and except for
trucks hauling agricultural products.
   (B)   Trucks shall be allowed on:
 
Location
Broadway/Highway 26, 19th Avenue, north of Broadway to the city limits
10th Street and Spring Creek Road
13th Street from Center Avenue to 22nd Avenue
22nd Avenue from 13th Street to Broadway
 
   (C)   This regulation shall not apply to any vehicle traveling directly to
or from the County Fairgrounds.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 472, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 485, passed 6-13-1988;
Ord. 487, passed 8-16-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. USE OF ROLLER DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate skates or a skateboard on a public sidewalk or
city owned or operated parking lot or street situated in the following areas.
 
Location                                                  Penalty
Denver Avenue                                             As set forth in §
                                                          70.99
One-half block east and west of Center Avenue between the As set forth in §
railroad tracks on the south and Broadway Street on the   70.99
north*
*Except at the Center Avenue Broadway intersection where use on the sidewalk
is allowed.
 
   (B)   No person shall operate skates or a skateboard on the following city
owned street situated in whole or in part within the following areas.
 
Location                                                   Penalty
Highway 26, also known as Broadway, within the city limits As set forth in §
                                                           70.99
19th Avenue within the city limits.                        As set forth in §
                                                           70.99
 
(Prior Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 565, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 570, passed 9-7-1995)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
      
II.   Truck parking
      
III.   Loading zones
      
IV.   Fire lanes
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
Location Restriction Penalty
Location                      Restriction                   Penalty
Center Avenue between         No parking on Fridays between
Broadway and the railroad     the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6: As set forth in §
crossing                      00 a.m. and at such times as  70.99
                              needed for snow removal
East side of 19th Avenue from
the alley between 17th Street
and18th Street, to 18th       No parking from 8:00 a.m. to  As set forth in §
Street, and on the west side  5:00 p.m. on school days      70.99
of 19th Avenue from 17th
Street to 19th Street
East side of 22nd Avenue, 275
feet north of the             No parking                    As set forth in §
intersection of 22nd Avenue                                 70.99
and Broadway
West side of 22nd Avenue, 180
feet north of the             No parking, when posted.      As set forth in §
intersection of 22nd Avenue,                                70.99
when posted*
The parking stall on the
north side of 13th Street,    Loading zone having a 30-     As set forth in §
east of the alley that is     minute time limit             70.99
west of Center Avenue
The eighth and ninth parking  Two-hour parking between the
stalls north of Railroad      hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00   As set forth in §
Street on the west side of    p.m.                          70.99
Center Avenue shall be
The second and third parking  Two-hour parking between the
stalls north of Railroad      hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00   As set forth in §
Street on the west side of    p.m.                          70.99
Center Avenue
*Vehicles may park on the west side of the street for up to 15 minutes for
loading and unloading purposes only when “No Parking” signs are posted.
 
(Prior Code, § 5-603) (Ord. 463, passed 6-3-1986; Ord. 480, passed 3-1-1988;
Ord. 484, passed 6-7-1988; Ord. 523, passed 9-10-1991; Ord. 682, passed 4-4-
2006; Ord. 695, passed 6-5-2007)
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It should be unlawful for any person to park any semi-tractor or semi-
trailer on the streets of the city, except in the following areas.
 
Location
12th Street, between 14th Avenue and 13th Avenue, north side only
11th Street, Center Avenue to 12th Avenue
10th Street, between 14th Avenue and the railroad tracks
 
   (B)   Any such vehicle that shall be actively and continuously engaged in
the loading or unloading of freight may be parked on the streets of the city
while the operator is engaged in such activity.
(Prior Code, § 5-607) (Ord. 449, passed 12-4-1984; Ord. 534, passed 6-2-1992)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The following locations are hereby designated as loading zones.
 
Location                                Designation
The first two parking spaces west of    For use by individuals for loading and
Center Avenue on the north side of 13th unloading freight and other materials
Street                                  between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
                                        p.m. Monday through Friday
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to park in the designated
parking spaces if they are not in the process of loading or unloading freight
or other materials.
(Prior Code, § 5-606) (Ord. 536, passed 7-8-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The following locations are hereby designated as fire lanes in the
city.
 
Location                  Marking
1300 block of 14th Avenue Red curb and sign
1500 block of 22nd Avenue Red curb and sign
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park a vehicle other than an
emergency vehicle in a designated fire lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-618) (Ord. 441, passed 2-7-1984) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
90.15   Operation and funding
   
90.16   Admission charge
   
90.17   Rentals
   
90.18   Rules and regulations
Golf Courses
   
90.30   Golf course rates
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities, or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Mayor and City Council may
each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Clerk-Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and the police
power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance and improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject
to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund
and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall manage the swimming pool. The Board
shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise the swimming pool
manager and such employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules
and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951 and 17-952
§ 90.16 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Board of Public of Public Works may, for the purpose of defraying the
expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the
swimming pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of
the municipal swimming pool. The charges shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at
the municipal swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured
for classes of persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein
shall be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race,
creed, color or national origin in the classification of persons for admission
charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 90.17 RENTALS.
   The Board of Public Works shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as it may in its
discretion see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The Board
shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require an
appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the
rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-803)
§ 90.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Public Works shall have the power and authority to enact
bylaws, rules and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof. The Board may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to
the review and supervision of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-804)
GOLF COURSES
§ 90.30 GOLF COURSE RATES.
   Fees for the Scenic Knolls Golf Course are as follows:
Annual golf passes paid prior to April 1
   Couple                                 $480
   Family                                 $550
   Single                                 $335
   Student                                $100
Annual golf passes paid after April 1
   Couple                                 $540
   Family                                 $600
   Single                                 $370
   Student                                $110
Green fees
   Annual cart storage paid after April 1 $400
   Annual cart storage paid prior to April$360
   Cart lease                             $440
   Cart rentals (per seat)
      9 holes                          $8
      18 holes                         $15
   Weekdays:
      9 holes                          $15.50
      18 holes                         $23
   Weekend/holidays:
      9 holes                          $15.50
      18 holes                         $23
Trail fees
   Annual                                 $80
   Daily                                  $8
Driving range
   Annual                                 $140
   Small bucket                           $2.50
   Medium bucket                          $3.50
   Large bucket                           $4.50
Punch cards
   10-9 hole rounds                       $115
   10-18 hole rounds                      $180
   20-9 hole rounds                       $220
   Cart-9 hole rounds                     $72
10% discount for veterans and active duty members of the military for
memberships and green fees
 
(Ord. 803, passed 4-4-2023)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   State rules
   
91.02   Health regulations
   
91.03   Enforcement official
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Jurisdiction
   
91.18   Emergency
   
91.19   Mobile homes and travel trailers
   
91.20   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
91.21   Abatement of nuisance
Excessive Noise
   
91.35   Finding; declaration
   
91.36   Prohibited
   
91.37   Standards; particular noises
   
91.38   Exemptions
   
91.39   Special permit
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 STATE RULES.
   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, as provided by State
Department of Health, are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the municipality in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended. Three copies of the pamphlet are filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
§ 91.02 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
quarantine officer, shall be the Chief Health Officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or
rats may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so
unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, in a state of disrepair, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value
of property in the vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tank age or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
and
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
(Ord. 646, passed 2-4-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of
real estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public
nuisance. Upon determination by the Board of Health that a nuisance, as defined
in this municipal code shall exist on any lots or other tract of land, or any
part thereof, or on any parking, sidewalk, street or alley area, or part
thereof, abutting a lot or the tract of land subject to this code, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice to abate or remove such nuisance to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. The notice shall describe in general terms the
nature of the work that needs to be done to the property to correct the
nuisance. Notice will also provide information concerning deadlines for
completing the work and the rights to appeal and request a hearing before the
City Council.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant
of the land has failed to comply with the order to abate the nuisance, the
Mayor, or his or her designee, may cause the city to remove the nuisance.
   (C)   If within 30 days of receipt of such notice the owner or occupant
makes a written request for hearing before the City Council, further
proceedings shall be suspended until a hearing is held before the City Council.
The suspension shall not apply to a nuisance and notice that exists with
reference to §
91.18. At such hearing, the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of the
property may present evidence to rebut the determination that a nuisance
exists. After considering all relevant evidence, the City Council may order the
nuisance abated or removed within the time specified by the City Council, the
Mayor or his or her designee shall cause the city to remove the nuisance.
Statement of the costs of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
and after notice and hearing, the governing body may levy the cost as a special
assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the
real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
   (D)   The remedy provided in this section shall be cumulative with any other
remedy provided in this code or any other county, state or federal statutory
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 584, passed 3-4-1997; Ord. 623, passed 9-7-2000)
§ 91.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor or Chief of Police of the municipality are directed to enforce the
municipal code against all nuisances. If they believe a nuisance may exist, a
meeting of the Board of Health shall be convened to examine the property. The
Board shall file a written report with the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall give
notice pursuant to §
91.16. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of Police and Municipal Court shall
extend to the territorial application of this chapter, all territory within the
city’s zoning restriction as otherwise defined by this code and state statute.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) (Ord. 584, passed 3-4-1997)
§ 91.18 EMERGENCY.
   If the Mayor or his or her designee and the Chief of Police shall determine
that a particular nuisance as defined in this code is so unsafe, or is unsafe
in any respect such that a delay in removal thereof would result in undue
danger or other hazard to persons or property, they may declare in writing that
there exists an emergency requiring that this nuisance be removed immediately,
in which event the notice described in §
91.16 shall provide for removal immediately, and, if the nuisance is not so
removed, the Mayor or his or her designee shall cause the city to remove the
nuisance. The cost and expenses of such removal may be assessed as provided in
§
91.16. The remedy provided in this section shall be cumulative with any other
remedy provided in this code or applicable state or federal statutes and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 584, passed 3-4-1997)
§ 91.19 MOBILE HOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   A nuisance is generally defined in §
91.15. The maintaining, using, placing, leaving or permitting the parking of
any mobile home or travel trailer on any property within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city and connecting said mobile home or travel trailer to
the municipal utilities or municipal sewer system without permit or license to
do so is unlawful. The specific acts, omission, places, conditions and things
are hereby declared to be a nuisance as hazardous to health and safety of the
residents of the city. The owner or occupier of the real estate or person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply, pursuant to §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 673, passed 6-7-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Any and all lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained
or filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   Throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece of
ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit, allow or maintain
any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation or noxious weeds, regardless of height or to litter or to cause
litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles. Nothing
in this section shall prevent the growing of grass or alfalfa as part of a
legitimate agricultural purpose.
   (E)   Notice to abate such nuisance shall be given to each owner or owner’s
duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or
certified mail. If notice of personal service by certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done. The cost and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner or the occupant, or both. If unpaid
for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the cost and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the cost and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and adjoining streets and alleys against the owner,
the occupant or both.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of any
machine or vehicle, which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperable or unable to perform their intended functions, or are cast
off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include but are not limited to: bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canadian
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solarium carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rahmnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae), and other worthless vegetation commonly regarded as
weeds.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) (Ord. 528, passed 10-8-1991; Ord. 693, passed 11-7-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563 and 18-1719
§ 91.21 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-502)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
EXCESSIVE NOISE
§ 91.35 FINDING; DECLARATION.
   It is found and declared that:
   (A)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud
noises within the corporate limits of the city is a condition that exists, and
the extent and volume of such noises is increasing;
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of such excessive, unnecessary or
unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual or unnatural in their time,
place and use affect and are a detriment to public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the inhabitants of the city; and
   (C)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions concerning noise which are hereinafter contained is hereby
declared as a matter of legislative determination and public policy, and it is
further declared that the provisions and prohibitions herein after contained
are in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and
quiet of the city and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.36 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others, within the corporate limits of the city. provided,
this section shall not apply to noise that by §
91.38 is declared to be exempt from the provisions of this section, or to noise
caused or permitted by a person to whom a permit has been granted as provided
in §
91.39.
(Prior Code, § 4-402) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.37 STANDARDS; PARTICULAR NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of §
91.36, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise, including barking, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity;
   (B)   The operation of any motor vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle so out
of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (C)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of the city, except
as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of any such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any horn, whistle or
other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling
device by which traffic is for any reason held up;
   (D)   The operation between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or
other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise;
   (E)   The creation of an excessive noise within any quiet zone established
by the City Council which unreasonably interferes with the use of the premises,
or disturbs or unduly annoys occupants or users of the premises for the benefit
of whom the quiet zone has been established;
   (F)   Shouting or loud hollering which unreasonably interferes with the
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity; and
   (G)   The use or operation of any radio or other mechanical or electrical
devices or instruments amplifying and reproducing the human voice, or any sound
or noise, in any public or private place, or from any moving vehicle, in such
manner that the peace and good order of the neighborhood are disturbed, or that
persons owning, using or occupying property in the neighborhood are disturbed
or annoyed. Provided, the City Council may grant permission for the erection
and use of temporary radio speakers, and other mechanical or electrical devices
or instruments amplifying and reproducing the human voice, or any sound or
noise at a fixed location, or on moving vehicles, as a part of a celebration or
commemoration of a patriotic or historic event, or national or state holiday,
or local celebration, or at gatherings of a public nature, and at such other
times as the City Council may see fit; provided, further, the City Council, in
granting such permission, shall expressly designate the time such permission
shall continue.
(Prior Code, § 4-403) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following noises shall be exempt from the provisions of §
91.36:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure-
relief valves; and
   (B)   Noises caused by any Police or Fire Department vehicle or any
authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or acting in
the time of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 4-404) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.39 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit to cause or permit noise otherwise
prohibited by §
91.37 on the basis of undue hardship may be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer,
or his or her duly authorized representative. Any permit granted hereunder
shall contain all conditions upon which the permit has been granted and shall
specify a reasonable time that the permit shall be effective.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her duly authorized
representative, may grant the relief as applied for if he or she finds:
      (1)   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
his or her activity or operation to comply with §
91.37;
      (2)   The activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration, and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with other
subsections of this section; and
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant. The
City Clerk-Treasurer may prescribe any conditions or requirements he or she
deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 4-405) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply or for each separate incident constituting a
violation.
      (2)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command
of a citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)
   (B)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground within the city
shall, upon conviction of violating §
91.20, be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)
   (C)   Any person, persons, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
91.35 through
91.39 shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 4-406)
(Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984; Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-
2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Unlawful acts
   
92.03   Cruelty
   
92.04   Enclosures
   
92.05   Abandonment, neglect and cruelty
   
92.06   Equine, bovine; prohibited acts
   
92.07   Keeping of fowl and other animals; prohibitions
Dogs and Cats
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   License
   
92.22   License tags
   
92.23   Wrongful licensing
   
92.24   Running at large
   
92.25   Interference with Animal Warden
   
92.26   Liability of owner
   
92.27   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
92.28   Impounding
   
92.29   Rabies suspected
   
92.30   Dangerous dogs
   
92.31   Limitation on numbers within city limits
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making effective
provision for its food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
animal’s health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except human. The term
shall not include an uncaptured wild creature.
   BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise set upon any animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   EQUINE. A horse, pony, donkey, mule, hinny or llama.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of any city or village, or any
other public official authorized by a city or village to enforce state or local
animal control laws, rules, regulations or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-204) (Ord. 517, passed 3-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008
§ 92.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those operating a
licensed packing or slaughterhouse, or having the charge, custody or control
thereof, to keep any animal or fowl, other than household pets, in pens, lots,
stables or other enclosures, or herd any animal or fowl, or otherwise permit
any animal or fowl to go loose or run at large in any of the public ways or
upon the property of another within the corporate limits of the city, nor shall
any person, either as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian, keep or maintain any
chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other similar fowl.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)
§ 92.05 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND CRUELTY.
   (A)   Law enforcement officer; powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for
or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
   (B)   Violation. A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons,
cruelly mistreats or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)
(Ord. 517, passed 3-5-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009 and 28-1012 
§ 92.06 EQUINE, BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling
contests.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall or dragging of any bovine
by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice occurring in
conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling contests.
(Prior Code, § 6-207) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 KEEPING OF FOWL AND OTHER ANIMALS; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than those operating a
licensed packing or slaughterhouse or having the charge, custody or control
thereof, to keep any animal or fowl, other than household pets, in pens, lots
or stables, or other enclosures or herd any animal or fowl, or otherwise permit
any animal or fowl to be loose or run at large in any of the public ways or
upon the property of another within the corporate limits of the city, nor shall
any person, either as owner, bailee, keeper or custodian keep or maintain any
chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other similar fowl, except as provided in §§
706.02 and 709.02 of the city’s zoning regulations.
(Ord. 792, passed 8-11-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. Any law enforcement agency or animal control authority
providing services to the city.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a dog
or cat. This shall include a person temporarily in possession of a dog or cat
at the request of the owner of the dog or cat. The OWNER as defined in this
section shall be liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 687, passed 7-6-2006)
§ 92.21 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat over the age of
six months within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of
the dog or cat acquire a license for each such dog or cat annually by or before
December 31 of each year. The tax shall be delinquent from and after December
31; provided, that the possessor of any dog or cat brought into or harbored
within the corporate limits, subsequent to December 31 of any year, shall be
liable for the payment of the dog or cat tax levied herein, and such tax shall
be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. Licenses shall be issued
by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer upon the payment of a license fee of $2 for
each male dog or cat and spayed female dog or cat and $4 for each unspayed
female dog or cat. Said license shall not be transferable, and no refund will
be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog or
cat.
   (B)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made, and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog or cat owned and kept by him or her. A
certificate that the dog or cat has had a rabies shot, effective for the
ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 92.22 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of a dog or cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for
each dog or cat so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of all dogs or cats so licensed and shall entitle the
owner to keep or harbor the dog or cat until December 31 following such
licensing. In the event that a license tag is lost, and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new
tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid and
shall charge and collect a fee of $0.50 for each duplicate or new tag so
issued. All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the
General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to issue
tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 92.23 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other
municipal identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for
dogs or cats, nor shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly
license an unspayed female dog or cat with a license prescribed for a male or
spayed female dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 92.24 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall
be the duty of the Animal Warden to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the municipality to be taken up and impounded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, RUNNING AT LARGE means any dog found
off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner or a
responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other
suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) (Ord. 460, passed 5-6-1986) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-607
§ 92.25 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL WARDEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
Animal Warden who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by the
provisions of this subchapter, or to break open, or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
or cats to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 92.26 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned, kept or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog or cat, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601 and 54-602
§ 92.27 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (Prior Code, § 6-108) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Warden to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any dog or cat
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs or cats so
impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a
sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog or cat
shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of not to exceed 72
hours after public notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the
owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of such impoundment.
   (B)   Any dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set
by resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing
and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog
or cat is not claimed at the end of required waiting period after public notice
has been given, the Animal Warden may dispose of the dog or cat in accordance
with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided,
that if, in the judgment of the Animal Warden, a suitable home can be found for
any such dog or cat within the municipality, the dog or cat shall be turned
over to that person, and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this
subchapter.
   (C)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or
cat impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required
waiting period after giving notice. All dogs or cats shall be destroyed and
buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health
unless a suitable home can be found for such dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) (Ord. 460, passed 5-6-1986; Ord. 478, passed 2-2-1988;
Ord. 668, passed 6-8-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
§ 92.29 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog or cat
not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less
than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to
the owner, or, in the case of an unlicensed dog or cat, it shall be disposed of
in accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of the dog or cat has
proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other
responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog or
cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are
observed, the dog or cat may be released from confinement.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (Prior Code, § 6-110)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 92.30 DANGEROUS DOGS.
    (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog which meets one of the following criteria:
            1.   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting;
            2.   Is trained for dog fighting; or
            3.   Has according to the records of the city or any law
enforcement agency or Animal Control Authority providing services to the city:
               a.   Killed or inflicted severe injury on a human on public or
private property;
               b.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off of the owner’s property; or
               c.   After having been determined to be a potentially DANGEROUS
DOG and where the owners receive notice of such determination, then
aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be deemed a DANGEROUS DOG if:
            1.   The dog is a trained dog assisting a police officer engaged in
law enforcement duties; or
            2.   If the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the
damage was sustained by a person who:
               a.   At the time was committing a willful trespass as defined in
the statutes of the state and this code or any other tort upon the property of
the owner or harborer of the dog;
               b.   At the time was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog;
               c.   Has in the past been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog; or
               d.   At the time was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog. This shall include a person temporarily in possession of a dog at the
request of the owner of the dog.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more
broken bones, or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of a
victim.
   (B)   Any dog which meets one or more of the following criteria may be
determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by the City Prosecutor, or any law
enforcement agency or animal control authority providing services to the city:
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or other
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
      (3)   The determination that a specific dog is a potentially dangerous
dog shall be made by the City Prosecutor or any law enforcement agency or
animal control authority providing services to the city. The owner of the dog
shall be given written notice of such determination. Such written notice shall
inform the owner that if the dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers
the safety of humans or domestic animals, the city may determine the dog to be
a dangerous dog and require it to be restrained as provided in this code.
   (C)   (1)   A determination that a specific dog is a dangerous dog shall be
made by the City Prosecutor or any law enforcement agency or animal control
authority providing services to the city. The owner of the dog shall be given
written notice of such a determination. The notice shall be in writing and
shall inform the owner:
         (a)   The dog has been determined to be dangerous;
         (b)   The dog is required to be restrained and confined as described
in this section;
         (c)   If the owner disputes the identification of the dog as a
dangerous dog, he or she may submit a written request for a hearing to the City
Administrator within five working days after receipt of the written
notification; and
         (d)   If no such hearing is requested, that the identification of the
dog as a dangerous dog shall be final and not subject to further review.
      (2)   The timely request for a hearing under this section shall stay the
determination of the dog as a dangerous dog until a final decision is made by
the City Administrator. The hearing shall be held before the City Administrator
within a reasonable time after the request is made. The burden of going forward
with the evidence shall be on the city to demonstrate that the dog meets one of
the criteria listed in division (A)(1) above. After such hearing the City
Administrator shall have the authority to affirm, reverse or modify the
identification of the dog as a dangerous dog.
   (D)   (1)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond
the property of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained
with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding
three feet in length.
      (2)    While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure
shall also protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog
shall post a warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly
visible and that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dog fighting, or train,
torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or encouraging
that dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals; or
      (2)   Possess with intent to sell, offer for sale, breed or buy or
attempt to buy, within the city any dangerous dog.
   (F)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by any law
enforcement officer or any animal control authority providing services to the
city if the owner is in violation of this section. Any dangerous dog may also
be confiscated if, within two weeks immediately preceding the date of
confiscation, it was observed in a condition when it was not properly confined
or restrained as provided in this section. The owner shall be responsible for
the reasonable costs incurred by the city for the care of a dangerous dog
confiscated by an animal control officer or other law enforcement officer and
shall also be lawful for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by
the city is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section. Any
dangerous dog shall be retained by the city pending the order of an appropriate
court.
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the city to
dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 687, passed 7-6-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 LIMITATION ON NUMBERS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any residence or
premises within the city limits to own, keep or harbor more than three dogs
and/or cats who are over the age of six months.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall alter or modify the provisions of the
city code concerning kennels, except that no kennels shall be allowed within
the city limits. To the extent that the owner/occupant of a premises within the
zoning jurisdiction of the city complies with zoning restrictions concerning a
kennel, this section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 609, passed 4-7-1998) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
92.30 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not more than $250 and shall
pay the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 687, passed 7-6-2006)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Preservation of property
   
93.02   Disorderly spectator
   
93.03   Equipment
   
93.04   Interference
   
93.05   Obstruction
   
93.06   Assistance
   
93.07   Driving over hose
   
93.08   Fires; traffic control
   
93.09   False alarm
   
93.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
93.25   Fire prevention code
   
93.26   Fire code enforcement
   
93.27   Lawful entry
   
93.28   Violation notice
   
93.29   Fire prohibited
   
93.30   Open burning ban; waiver
   
93.31   Stoves, burning crankcase drainings or crude oil prohibited
Fireworks
   
93.45   Permitted fireworks
   
93.46   Throwing firecrackers
   
93.47   Sale and discharge
Hazardous Materials and Explosives
   
93.60   Explosive materials and explosives prohibited
   
93.61   Gasoline; sale; containers
   
93.62   Kerosene; sale; container
   
93.63   Bulk storage; retailers and wholesalers
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 93.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 93.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of the
owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 93.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 93.08 FIRES; TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 93.09 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.25 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   Three copies of the fire prevention code shall be on file with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and applicability of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902 and
19-922
   State Fire Marshal; duties, see Neb. RS 81-502
§ 93.26 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 93.27 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Neb. RS 81-512) (Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 93.28 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances, to correct the condition that violates the ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 93.29 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (Prior Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to burn any trash,
rubbish or other material outdoors within the city limits. It shall be unlawful
for any person or persons to dispose of any waste materials by burning in an
incinerator or other disposal facility within the city limits of the city. All
waste materials, trash or rubbish shall be disposed of by placing it in an
appropriate container to be picked up by the City Sanitation Department. Any
hazardous waste shall not be placed in containers to be picked up by the City
Sanitation Department but shall be disposed of in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations set forth by federal, state and local
government.
   (B)   The City Fire Chief may waive the ban on burning set forth in this
section, and burning may be allowed on a limited basis upon issuance by the
City Fire Chief of an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to
conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring
to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief and on a
form prescribed by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Any open burning shall be conducted in a manner to ensure that the
burning is kept under control at all times and that all property is protected
from damage by the open burning.
(Prior Code, § 7-206) (Ord. 535, passed 6-2-1992) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 93.31 STOVES, BURNING CRANKCASE DRAININGS OR CRUDE OIL PROHIBITED.
   No homemade oil burning stoves or device that burns crankcase drainings or
crude oil shall be permitted or allowed to be burned or operated within the
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.45 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvious fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than one-half
grain each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provision of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
governing body or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purpose pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 6-317) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244 and 28-1245
§ 93.46 THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any building;
or into or at any group of persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556 and 28-1242
§ 93.47 SALE AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year.
Licensees shall only sell fireworks that have been approved by the Fire
Marshal. Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between 12:01 a.m. on
June 24 and 11:59 p.m. on July 4 of each year and between 12:01 a.m. on
December 29 and 11:59 p.m. on December 21 of each year.
   (B)   Permissible fireworks may be discharged between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. from June 25 to July 3, between 9:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on July
4, and between 4:30 p.m. on December 31 and 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
Permissible fireworks may not be discharged during any other time, except the
City Council may approve, in advance of a special event, the discharge of
permissible fireworks during such special event. When approving the discharge
of fireworks for a special event, the City Council may impose any restrictions
it deems advisable and in the public interest.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge fireworks of any kind in city-owned
shelters or buildings.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) (Ord. 614, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 769, passed 7-11-2017)
Penalty, see §
93.99
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.60 EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to store, use, purchase or sell any explosive
materials or explosives within the city except when the State Fire Marshal has
issued a valid permit therefor pursuant to the statutes of the state and the
regulations of the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLASTING AGENTS. Any material or mixture, consisting of fuel and
oxidizer, intended for blasting, not otherwise defined as an explosive, but
shall not include a finished product, ready for use or shipment, which cannot
be detonated by means of a number eight test blasting cap when unconfined.
      DETONATORS. Any device containing a detonating charge that is used for
initiating detonation in an explosive, including, but not limited to, electric
blasting caps of instantaneous and delay types, blasting caps for use with
safety fuses and detonating cord delay connectors.
      EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL. Explosives, blasting agents and detonators.
      EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion, including, but not limited
to, dynamite and other high explosives, black powder, pellet powder, initiating
explosives, detonators, safety fuses, squibs, detonating cord, ignitor cord and
ignitors, but shall not include permissible fireworks as defined elsewhere in
this code, or gasoline, kerosene, naptha, turpentine, benzene, acetone, ethyl
ether, benzol, fixed ammunition and primers for small arms, safety fuses or
matches.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.61 GASOLINE; SALE; CONTAINERS.
   Every person within the city retailing or purchasing at retail gasoline,
benzene and other kindred high explosives, in less than commercial lots, shall
sell or receive, as the case may be, the same only in barrels, casks, packages
or cans of not more than five gallon capacity, painted vermillion red and
having the word gasoline, benzene or whatever name such explosive is known by
plainly printed thereon in English. All such words above referred to shall be
in letters sufficiently large to attract attention. This section shall not
prohibit the placement of gasoline in motor vehicle fuel tanks or bulk
transport trucks.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
§ 93.62 KEROSENE; SALE; CONTAINER.
   No person shall deliver, purchase or keep for use kerosene or what is known
as coal oil in any barrel, cask, package or can painted or stamped as provided
for gasoline, benzene and other kindred high explosives.
(Prior Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.63 BULK STORAGE; RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to bulk storage
tanks of motor vehicle fuel retailers and wholesalers within the city where the
same are now located. Any person, firm, partnership or corporation seeking to
erect or install a petroleum storage facility for retail or wholesale use shall
first apply in writing to the Mayor and Council of the city setting forth all
specifications and details of the intended facility. The applicant may erect
and install the facility only upon securing a written permit from the Mayor and
Council. The permit, when initially issued, shall be temporary and shall be
conditioned upon the written approval of the petroleum storage facility by the
State Fire Marshal, such approval to be obtained and furnished to the Mayor and
Council before the storage facility is used.
   (B)   Upon the furnishing of written approval and upon the meeting of any
other safety requirements imposed by the Mayor and Council, and upon the
furnishing of written approval by the State Fire Marshal to the Mayor and
Council, the applicant shall then be allowed to store petroleum products in the
facility. The Mayor and Council may at any time, when necessary, by resolution,
order the removal of any petroleum products storage facility, when, in their
discretion, the welfare of the inhabitants of the city demands that such action
be taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-304)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Public policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Discriminatory practices
   
94.04   Commission established; appointment; membership; terms
   
94.05   Procedure
   
94.06   State law
   
94.07   Limitations
§ 94.01 PUBLIC POLICY.
   It is hereby declared that discriminatory practices as defined in section §
94.03 are against the public policy of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-901)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. A bona fide resident of the city, including persons who
have accepted employment in the city and students admitted to educational
programs in the city, who is acting in good faith in his or her attempt to
provide himself or herself, and/or his or her family, with housing in the city.
When the Fair Housing Commission finds a person has acted in bad faith, the
person cannot invoke the provisions of this chapter in any subsequent
proceeding.
   DISCRIMINATE. To make distinctions in treatment.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 10-902)
§ 94.03 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be a discriminatory practice:
      (1)   For any person, having the right, responsibility or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit or
real property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest therein, to refuse
to sell, rent, lease, assign or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit,
real property, or part or portions thereof, or interest therein, to any person
because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin of said
person;
      (2)   For any person having the right, responsibility or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit or
real property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest therein, to impose
upon any person because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex or national
origin of such person unusual, extraordinarily onerous terms, conditions or
privileges in the sale, rental, leasing, assignment or subleasing of any
dwelling unit, commercial unit or real property, or any part or portion
thereof, or interest therein;
      (3)   For any person, having the right, responsibility or authority to
sell, rent, lease, assign or sublease any dwelling unit, commercial unit or
real property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest therein, to directly
or indirectly advertise, or in any other manner indicate or publicize that the
purchase, rental, lease, sublease or assignment, listing, showing or the
lending of funds in connection with any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real
property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest therein, by persons of
any particular race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin is
unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable or not solicited;
      (4)   For any person, engaged in lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise making available funds for the purchase,
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any
dwelling unit, commercial unit or real property, or any part or portion
thereof, or interest therein, to discriminate because of the race, color,
creed, religion, sex or national origin of any person applying for loans or
guarantees of mortgages in lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting
mortgages or otherwise making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any dwelling unit,
commercial unit or real property, or any part or portion thereof, or interest
therein, or to place unusual, extraordinary, onerous rates of interest, terms
or conditions on the lending of said money, the guaranteeing of said loans,
acceptance of said mortgages or the availability of such funds;
      (5)   For any person to discriminate in furnishing any facilities or
services to any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real property, or part or
portion thereof, because of the race, color, creed, religion, sex or national
origin of any person making application for such facilities or services;
      (6)   For any person in the real estate business in any capacity
whatsoever to discriminate in the selling, renting, leasing, assigning or
subleasing of any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real property, or any part or
portion thereof, or interest therein, to any person because of the race, color,
creed, religion, sex or national origin of such person, or to represent for the
reason of race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin of any person,
that any dwelling unit, commercial unit, real property, or any part or portion
thereof, or interest therein, is not available for inspection, sale, rental,
lease, assignment or sublease; or otherwise to deny or withhold any dwelling
unit, commercial unit, real property, or any part or portion thereof, or
interest therein, to any person because of the race, color, creed or religion,
sex or national origin of said person;
      (7)   For any person to include in any sale, rental, lease, assignment or
sublease of any dwelling unit, commercial unit or real property, or any part or
portion thereof, or interest therein, as a condition of said transaction that
the purchaser, renter, tenant, occupant or assignee agree not to sell, rent,
lease, assign or sublease the dwelling unit, commercial unit or real property,
or part or portion thereof, or interest therein, to any person, because of
race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin of such person;
      (8)   For any person to discriminate against another person in any of the
rights protected under the provisions of this chapter because such person
complies with the provisions of this chapter or has opposed any practice
forbidden under this act, or has filed a complaint, testified or assisted in
any proceeding under this chapter; and
      (9)   For any person to aid, abet, incite, compel, coerce, cooperate or
participate in the doing of any act declared to be a discriminatory practice
under the provisions of this chapter, or to obstruct or prevent compliance with
the provisions of this chapter or any proceedings of the Fair Housing
Commission pursuant to this chapter, or to attempt directly or indirectly to
commit any act declared by this chapter to be a discriminatory practice.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter and particularly this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications it may impose based upon religion, when such qualifications are
related to a bona fide religious purpose;
      (2)   A rental or leasing of a housing accommodation in a building which
contained housing accommodations for not more than two families living
independently of each other, if the owner or members of his or her family
reside in one of such housing units; and
      (3)   The rental or leasing to less than seven persons within a single
housing accommodation by the occupant or owner of such housing accommodation if
he or she, or members of his or her family, reside there.
(Prior Code, § 10-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Fair Housing Commission which shall
consist of five members appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of
the City Council. Appointments shall take into consideration the various
racial, religious, cultural and social groups and geographical areas within the
city insofar as may be practicable. The term of appointment shall be three
years, except that for the purpose of maintaining an appropriate staggering of
terms, the Mayor may prescribe a shorter term for any appointment or
reappointment.
   (B)   In the event that a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Commission
by death, resignation or otherwise prior to the normal expiration of the
appointee’s term, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint
a person to serve out the remainder of the unexpired term. Any member or all
members of the Commission may be removed from office at any time by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council. No person shall serve on the Commission
for more than six years.
(Prior Code, § 10-904)
§ 94.05 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In order to ensure that the rights of all parties will be adequately
protected, the following procedures have been formulated for the filing,
investigating and hearing of complaints involving discrimination.
   (B)   Such procedures are designed to ensure all parties concerned an
adequate and fair opportunity to present their case.
      (1)   Complaints. In the event any person is alleged to have committed an
act of discrimination, any aggrieved person may file a sworn complaint in
writing with the secretary of the Fair Housing Commission. Said complaint shall
set out the name or names of the person or persons alleged to have committed
the act of discrimination, the statement of the act and the time and place of
the commission of the act.
      (2)   Investigation and conciliation. The Fair Housing Commission of the
city, sitting in executive session, shall consider each such complaint and in
each instance where a two-thirds’ majority of the members of the Commission are
of the opinion that an act of discrimination under the provisions of this
chapter may have been committed, it shall appoint a committee of one or more
members of the Commission to call upon the person alleged to have committed the
act of discrimination (hereinafter referred to as respondent), and attempt to
determine whether or not such an act has in fact been committed, and to effect
conciliation between the parties in the event a discriminatory act has been
committed, and to obtain commitments designed to prevent recurrence of the
matter complained of. In the event that the committee is successful in
effecting conciliation between the parties or becomes convinced that no
discriminatory act was committed, the complaint and all proceedings by the
Commission, and the committee shall be and remain confidential, and any
disclosure thereof except as hereinafter authorized, by the secretary or any
member of the Commission, shall be grounds for removal from office. The
Commission may, however, publish results of its work in official reports
omitting the names of the parties and any factual items which would identify
the parties.
      (3)   Waiting period. Before a public hearing is held, under division (B)
(4) below, a 30-day period of time shall pass in an attempt to effect a
reconciliation.
      (4)   Public hearing. In the event the respondent refuses to meet with
the committee selected by the Fair Housing Commission, or conciliation and the
obtaining of commitments against recurrence fails, the committee shall so
report the matter to the Fair Housing Commission, at which time the Mayor may
fix a time and place for public hearing on the complaint. The Commission shall
serve upon the respondent a written statement of the charges made in the
complaint and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing. The
hearing shall be held not less than 20 days after the service of the statement
of charges. The respondent shall have the right to file an answer to the
statement of charges, to appear at the hearing in person or to be represented
by an attorney and to examine and cross-examine witnesses. The hearing shall
not be conducted following the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of
law, except that the respondent shall have the right to confront any and all
witnesses against him or her and the right to refuse to testify against himself
or herself. All testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath. If, upon
all the evidence presented, the Commission finds that the respondent has
committed an act of discrimination, the Commission shall set forth its findings
of fact and shall issue and cause to be served upon the respondent such orders
as the Commission deems just and equitable.
      (5)   Enforcement. In the event the respondent fails to comply with any
order issued by the Commission, the Commission shall certify the matter to the
City Council for appropriate action including enforcement proceedings in the
District Court.
(Prior Code, § 10-905)
§ 94.06 STATE LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter shall diminish or restrict the city, the Commission,
or any person exercising the rights provided for and the procedures set out in
Neb. RS 20-113 et seq., and the Commission or the City Council may at any stage
of the proceedings provided for herein decline to take further action and refer
the matter to the State Equal Opportunity Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-906)
§ 94.07 LIMITATIONS.
   No action shall be brought under the provisions of this chapter unless the
written complaint shall have been filed within 30 days of the commission of the
alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-907)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Fire insurance companies
   
110.03   Collection date
   
110.04   Certificates
   
110.05   Failure to pay
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
110.20   Regulation
   
110.21   Hours of solicitation
   
110.22   Exceptions
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 AMOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following businesses:
 
Electricians                                   $15 per year
Peddlers, hawkers, solicitors and door-to-door $5 per day or $20 per year
salespersons
Plumbers                                       $15 per year
Tree trimmers and tree removers                $15 per year
 
   (B)   In addition to the occupation tax, electricians, plumbers, tree
trimmers and tree removers shall be required to show proof of liability
insurance for both personal injury and property damage in an amount not less
than $100,000 per person or occurrence. This insurance shall cover damages to
public or private property and personal injuries for individual claims.
   (C)   In addition to the occupation tax and liability insurance,
electricians, plumbers, tree trimmers and tree removers shall be required to
post a license and permit bond in the amount of $10,000 with the City Clerk-
Treasurer. This bond shall be issued by a surety company having sufficient
assets to ensure performance of the bond.
   (D)   Any occupation taxes for dealers of alcoholic liquors shall be paid in
addition to the license fee assessed pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124 and the rules
and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission. The annual occupation
tax shall be due to the city at the time that the license fee is due pursuant
to Neb. RS 53-124 and the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission. Licensees shall be obligated to pay occupation tax as provided
herein.
Class A (beer, on sale only)                                          $50
Class B (beer, off sale only)                                         $50
Class C (spirits, wine, beer, liquor on and off sale)                 $150
Class D (spirits, beer, wine, off sale only)                          $100
Class D1 (spirits, wine, beer, off sale only) within extraterritorial $100
zoning jurisdiction
Class F (beer, on sale only), outside corporate limits                $50
Class H (nonprofit corporation)                                       $25
Class I (beer, wine, spirits on sale only), inside corporate limits   $125
Class J (wine, beer on sale only), in connection with a restaurant,   $37.50
inside corporate limits
Class K (wine off sale only)                                          $62.50
Class K catering license                                              $75
Class L craft brewery (brew pub)                                      $100
Class M bottle club (spirits, wine, beer) on sale                     $100
Class V manufacturer                                                  $100
Class W wholesale beer                                                $125
Class X wholesale liquor                                              $250
Class Y farm winery                                                   $125
 
   (E) Any individual organization desiring a bingo permit shall pay an annual
permit fee as established by state law.
   (F) Any sellers or venders of tobacco and cigarettes shall pay an annual
permit fee as established by Neb. RS 28-1420 et seq. and any amendments.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. passed 1-5-1988; Ord. 527, passed 10-8-1991; Ord.
558, passed 6-7-1994; Ord. 583, passed 3-4-1997; Ord. 586, passed 8-5-1997;
Ord. 602, passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 674, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. 676, passed 1-9-
2006)
§ 110.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Neb. RS 35-106) (Prior Code, § 10-802)
§ 110.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year,
except in the event that the tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof
by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall give a receipt, properly dated and specifying the person paying the tax
and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited
into the General Fund by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or
her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One
copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (Prior Code, § 10-803)
§ 110.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.20 REGULATION.
   Any peddler or solicitor shall, before doing business within the city, make
application for and be issued a permit. Application shall be made to the City
Clerk and shall contain all the necessary information and documents required
for the protection of the residents of the city. Before any person is granted a
peddler’s or solicitor’s permit, he or she shall pay a permit fee of $15 per
day or $40 per year and shall remain subject to any occupation taxes and other
rules and regulations which the City Council deems appropriate. Except as
provided under §
110.22, PEDDLERS shall include truck farmers and any persons selling
merchandise or foodstuffs or soliciting orders for merchandise for future
delivery without a permanent day-to-day place of business within the city. Any
peddler’s or solicitor’s permit is subject to revocation for violation of §
110.21 or any other good and sufficient cause as determined by the city police.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 805, passed 8-8-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134 and 17-525
§ 110.21 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident, or residents, of the premises
solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 110.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person or persons selling
produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salespeople soliciting
merchants directly, or to a representative of a non-profit or charity
organization soliciting on behalf of that organization.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
111.05   Hiring minors
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Liquor application; municipal examination
   
111.25   Liquor application; notice; procedure
   
111.26   Liquor application; retail licensing standards
   
111.27   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.28   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.29   Display of license
   
111.30   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.31   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.32   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Hours of sale
   
111.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.50   Spiking beer
   
111.51   Original package required
   
111.52   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.53   Prohibited acts; performances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall,
restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general public except as
permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This
division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the
catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb.
RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. The same meaning as in Neb.
RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. unless within specific
exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18, 1983,
shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from retaining or
renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make and
submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to
grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. to determine whether any provision of the Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing body
has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to the
executive director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., any
rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, being Neb. RS
53-101 et seq., or any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation relating to
alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated, and to act upon these
complaints in the manner provided in the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Clerk-
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq., to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of
any applicant or licensee, except as otherwise provided for bottle club
licensees under state law, and to hear testimony and to take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of
the information desired, the City Council may authorize its agent or attorney
to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.32, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage
prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published
notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any
license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a
license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from
the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to the
Clerk-Treasurer a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver the license to the
licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.24 LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquors at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission
shall then notify the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer by registered or certified
mail. The governing body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the
application and report its recommendation for approval or denial of the
application in writing to the State Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of
receipt from the State Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause
to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant; hear testimony;
and take proof for its information in the performance of its duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the
governing body may authorize its agent, the City Clerk-Treasurer or the City
Attorney to act on its behalf. The governing body may conduct the examination
and hold the hearing upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and
copy of the application. The governing body shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held, and at which time the governing body shall receive
evidence, under oath, either orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant and
any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license.
   (C)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time not
less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the local governing body in support of or in
protest against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the
hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
notice from the Commission. After such hearing, the governing body shall cause
to be spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of such license. The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall thereupon mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage
prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published
notice.
(Prior Code, § 10-107) (Ord. 462, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. 497, passed 1-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131 and 53-134
§ 111.25 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall contain the
date, time and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are
legally or factually related may be heard and considered together unless any
party thereto makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that
prejudice would result there from.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal Attorney.
The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each
witness may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer.
      (2)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk-Treasurer, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (3)   The governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation prior to the
start of the hearing.
      (4)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk-Treasurer and
presented to the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by municipality
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (5)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (6)   Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney may
question any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (7)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (8)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (9)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk-Treasurer, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 462, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. 497, passed 1-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.26 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   The governing body shall only consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to
the State Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission,
or local governing body, or the employees of the Commission, in regard to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this division (C). The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
the purpose of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSEE.
(Prior Code, § 10-126) (Ord. 462, passed 5-13-1986; Ord. 497, passed 1-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.27 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or the rules and regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older as long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.28 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10
and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of
the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within
the city, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C
licenses shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are
filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer by three or more residents of
the city on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City
Council shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the license
should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section,
the City Council may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in
Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.29 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. or any city ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or ordinance to
the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
or any city ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or the
rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council
and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint
shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, and no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the
campus of any college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell at retail any
alcoholic beverages within the municipality, except during the hours provided
herein.
 
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic beverages (except beer and wine)
Monday through Saturday 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sunday                  12:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Beer and wine
Monday through Sunday   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell at retail any
alcoholic beverage during the hours that the polls are open on the date in
which any statewide primary or general election is conducted. It shall further
be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or their agents to
sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality, except between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.   
   (C)   The sale of alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, shall be
allowed both on sale and off sale during the hours designated herein.   
   (D)   (1)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
         ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.50 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.52 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.53 PROHIBITED ACTS; PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this section to provide for the
regulation of sexual acts and performances that may constitute disorderly and
undesirable behavior; to lessen the expenditure of the city’s funds by reducing
the incidence of illicit conduct at establishments affected by this section;
and to protect the public order and the general welfare of the residents of the
city.
   (B)   The following acts or conduct on premises holding a retailer’s license
or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Commission for the
consumption of alcohol as defined by the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq., on the premises are deemed contrary to public welfare and
morals and, therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning
or operating a commercial establishment located within the city, holding such a
license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission to permit the following
acts or conduct on the premises so licensed:
      (1)   To employ or use any person in the sale or service of alcoholic
beverages in or upon the licensed premises while such person is unclothed or in
such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female
breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, penis,
cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals;
      (2)   To employ or use the services of any hostess while such hostess is
unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as described in division (B)
(1) above;
      (3)   To encourage or permit any person on the licensed premises to
touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks or genitals of any other person;
      (4)   To permit any employees or person to wear or use any device or
covering exposed to view, which simulates the breast, genitals, pubic hair or
any portion thereof;
      (5)   To permit any person to perform acts of or acts which simulate:
         (a)   With or upon another person sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral
copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
         (b)   Masturbation or bestiality; or
         (c)   With or upon another person the touching, caressing or fondling
on the breast, buttocks or genitals.
      (6)   To permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects
to depict any of the prohibited activities described above;
      (7)   To permit the showing of film, still pictures, electronic
reproduction or other visual reproduction depicting:
         (a)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation,
sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law;
         (b)   Any person being touched, caressed or fondled on the breasts,
buttocks or genitals;
         (c)   Scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the genitals; or
         (d)   Scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are
employed to depict, or drawing is employed to portray, any of the prohibited
activities described above.
      (8)   To permit any person or person to perform acts of wrestling other
than wrist or arm wrestling.
(Prior Code, § 10-127) (Ord. 561, passed 11-7-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Pool, Billiards and Bowling
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Regulations
   
112.03   Unlawful activities
   
112.04   Hours
Bingo
   
112.15   Regulations
   
112.16   Tax
   
112.17   Quarterly report
   
112.18   Incorporated regulation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
POOL, BILLIARDS AND BOWLING
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOWLING. Any room, building or structure in which a game consisting of
rolling a heavy ball down a wooden lane in an attempt to knock over wooden pins
set upright at the opposite end of the lane is played, whether or not it is in
connection with any other business.
   POOL AND BILLIARDS; DEFINITION. A game played on a table in which the object
is to drive balls into the pockets and which is conducted for profit or gain.
All ordinances relating to pool and billiards shall apply to any such game
whether or not it is conducted in connection with any other business.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 112.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain or
operate any game of pool and billiards and/or bowling alley for profit without
having first obtained a license from the municipality. Any person desiring a
license to operate, maintain or own a pool and billiards table for profit, or
any bowling alley, shall file a written application with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Said application form shall contain such information and documents,
or copies thereof, as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether
to grant or reject the application.
   (B)   Upon determination that the granting of the license would be
beneficial to the municipality, the governing body shall immediately direct the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to issue the license to the applicant upon the
payment of a fee set by resolution of the governing body. Said license shall be
subject to revocation at any time for good and sufficient cause by the
governing body upon the issuance of proper notice and a hearing, if the
licensee should make such a request.
   (C)   Any person or persons so licensed shall be subject to any bond, fees
or other rules and regulations as may be set by resolution of the governing
body for the benefit of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-120, 17-207 and 17-525
§ 112.03 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a pool hall, billiards
hall or bowling alley to allow or permit any disturbance of the peace,
fighting, gambling, drinking of alcoholic beverages, drunkenness or the use of
profanity.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) (Ord. 443, passed 5-1-1984) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-120
§ 112.04 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any pool hall, billiards
hall or bowling alley to open or make available for public use said pool hall,
billiards hall or bowling alley between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on
any day of the week except Sunday when the pool hall, billiards hall or bowling
alley shall not be open or available to the public from 12:00 a.m. until 1:00
p.m., and the owner or operator shall exclude therefrom all persons during the
time such pool hall, billiards hall or bowling alley is required to be closed.
(Neb. RS 17-120) (Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
112.99
BINGO
§ 112.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in
accordance with all laws of the municipality and the state if the game of bingo
is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed by the
state to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from the
governing body before commencing operation of said game. Application shall be
made to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for such permit. Said application form
shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof as the governing
body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the application.
   (B)   Upon the determination that granting the application would be proper,
the governing body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to
issue the license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit fee of
$10. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any time for good cause.
Any person or persons so licensed shall be subject to any other fees, rules and
regulations which the governing body may designate.
   (C)   All permits so issued will automatically expire on March 31, following
its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise prescribed
shall be in the sum of $10. Said fee shall be credited to the General Fund. The
permit shall be on display at any place where a game of bingo is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 112.16 TAX.
   A tax of 2% of the gross receipts of each licensed association deriving
revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and levied against each such
association and payable on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately
succeeding calendar quarter to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Such tax shall be
credited to the General Fund of the municipality and shall be used to pay for
the cost of regulation and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) (Ord. 518, passed 3-5-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-239
§ 112.17 QUARTERLY REPORT.
   Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written
quarterly report to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer covering the preceding
calendar quarter on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately succeeding
calendar quarter.
(Neb. RS 9-235) (Prior Code, § 10-403)
§ 112.18 INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable state statutes, as they now exist or may hereafter be
amended, shall be and will constitute a part of this subchapter as if repeated
verbatim herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any state statute will be a distinct and separate offense
against the municipality as well as against the state. Violators thereof shall
be separately prosecuted by the municipality for each of such offenses and, if
convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)
CHAPTER 113: RAILROAD COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Safe crossing
   
113.02   Lighting
   
113.03   Obstructing traffic
   
113.04   Speed limit ordinance, procedure
§ 113.01 SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition
the crossings and rights-of-way in the municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the governing body may, by resolution, call upon the company to make
whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
Notice of the resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the company.
In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and correct the
condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter
shall be deemed, and is hereby made, a separate and distinct offense against
the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552 and 17-1336
§ 113.02 LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the company.
(Neb. RS 17-561) (Prior Code, § 10-502)
§ 113.03 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than ten minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-552) (Prior Code, § 10-503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 SPEED LIMIT ORDINANCE, PROCEDURE.
   No speed limitation ordinance which would directly affect the operations of
an interstate railroad shall be valid or enforceable unless its adoption is in
compliance with this section. Before the first reading of the proposed
ordinance, the railroad whose operations would be directly affected by the
ordinance shall be given written notice by United States mail of the proposed
ordinance and the date, time and place of such reading. Such notice shall be
given at least ten days prior to the reading. The affected railroad or
railroads shall have an opportunity to be heard at the first reading. After
enactment, the railroad or railroads whose operations would be directly
affected shall be provided a written or printed copy of the ordinance by United
States mail.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.02   Posting
   
130.03   Petit larceny
   
130.04   Theft from Municipal Library
   
130.05   Shoplifting
   
130.06   Disorderly house
   
130.07   Entry; remaining on property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
recklessly, intentionally, willfully or maliciously injure, in any manner, or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the city for signs or signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PETIT LARCENY.
   If any person shall steal, or attempt to steal, any money or goods and
chattels of any kind whatever of less value than $100, the property of another,
or shall steal or maliciously destroy or attempt to steal or maliciously
destroy any money, promissory note, bill of exchange, order, draft, receipt,
warrant, check or bond given for the payment of money or receipt acknowledging
the receipt of money or other property of less value than $100, judgment shall
be entered ordering such person so offending to make restitution to the party
injured in twofold the value of the property stolen or destroyed, and such
judgment may be enforced by the property owner the same as any judgment in a
civil action and upon conviction, such person shall be punished as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 THEFT FROM MUNICIPAL LIBRARY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft if he or she borrows, checks out or
receives on loan any book, magazine, periodical, video cassette tape recording,
audio cassette tape recording, camera, projector or any other property owned by
the Municipal Library of any value, for a specified period of time and does
fail to return the item borrowed or received item with the intent to deprive
the Municipal Library of such property.
   (B)   It should be presumed that the failure to return borrowed items to the
Municipal Library is done with the intent to deprive the Municipal Library of
such property if the borrower or receiver shall fail to return the item within
ten days after written notice is mailed or delivered to the borrower or
receiver at his or her last known address with notification that the item was
not returned on the due date.
   (C)   Notice under this section shall demand that the item(s) be returned
within ten days after the notice is mailed or delivered.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 520, passed 6-4-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a theft by shoplifting.
   (B)   A person commits a theft by shoplifting when he or she, with the
intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without paying for
the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or its retail
value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag for another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, run or
maintain a disorderly house within the city. For the purpose of this section, a
DISORDERLY HOUSE shall include any place kept in such a manner as to disturb,
annoy or scandalize the public generally, or persons within the particular
neighborhood; and any place kept for the purpose of public resort with
drunkards, prostitutes or other idle or vicious people, and any place of public
resort where illegal practices are habitually carried on to the corruption of
the public morals or safety.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 ENTRY; REMAINING ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person, if he or she knows
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to so do:
      (1)   To enter or secretly remain in any building or occupied structure,
or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof; or
      (2)   To enter or remain in any place as to which notice against trespass
is given by: actual communication to the actor; posting in a manner prescribed
by law or reasonably likely to come to the attention of intruders; or fencing
or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude intruders. Provided, it is an
affirmative defense to prosecution under division (A)(1) above that the
building or occupied structure was abandoned, and to a prosecution under this
division (A) that the premises were at the time open to members of the public,
and the actor complied with all lawful conditions imposed on access to or
remaining in the premises, or that the actor reasonably believed that the owner
of the premises or other person empowered to license access thereto would have
licensed him or her to enter or remain.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)
   (B)   Specific restrictions. Without limitation upon any restriction
contained in division (A) above, it shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To knowingly, between the hours of sunset and sunrise as
established by the United States Nautical Almanac Office Publication of Sunrise
and Sunset Tables, enter upon any privately owned real property which is not
available to the use of the public unless such person has obtained the consent
of the owner or person in possession or control thereof;
      (2)   To lodge, camp or sleep in any public way, park or place, except at
authorized camping areas; or
      (3)   To lodge in any vehicle, or to occupy any vehicle, without the
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession.
(Prior Code, § 6-327.01)
(Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate the provisions in §
130.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to
have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the demand for
return of the borrowed item.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 520, passed 6-4-1991)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Provoking assault
   
131.02   Menacing threats
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PROVOKING ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the municipality to
intentionally provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or herself,
or another, by the uttering of insulting words, cursing and swearing, or to use
slander against any other person.
(Neb. RS 28-412) (Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 MENACING THREATS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of
this municipality to assault or threaten another in a menacing manner or strike
or injure another.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
131.01, a fine not to exceed $10 shall be assessed.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Disturbing the peace
   
132.03   Unlawful assembly
   
132.04   Curfew for minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using of obscene or profane language in
the city limits including the streets or other public places, or is otherwise
engaging in any indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-316) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-129 and 17-556
§ 132.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together upon any
sidewalk or street thereof, in front of or adjacent to any store, shop or other
place of business, so as to obstruct the public right-of-way along said street
or sidewalk, or entrance to said place of business, or so as to obstruct or
injure the carrying on of any lawful business in any of the places aforesaid
within the limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is hereby made unlawful for any person under 16 years of age,
whether in conveyance or not, to be upon the public streets or thoroughfares,
or in the city parks or other places of the city, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The person is accompanied by a parent or guardian or another adult
having the persons care and custody;
      (2)   The person is in the performance of employment or on an errand or a
duty authorized or imposed by his or her parent or guardian; or
      (3)   The person is traveling directly to his or her place of residence
immediately after having attended a theater, dance or similar public function
and attendance at which is approved by his or her parent or guardian.
   (B)   These exceptions shall not apply when such minor person shall employ
or loiter unnecessarily in or upon the public streets, thoroughfares, parks or
other places in the city, whether alone or accompanied by a parent or other
person or persons whomsoever. The time when the minor shall disperse from the
streets may be indicated if ordered by the Mayor by the sounding of the city
siren.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian or other person having custody of any minor child
under the age of 16 years who, knowingly or through lack of diligence, shall
permit such child to be in violation of the provisions of §
132.04, shall be deemed guilty of neglect of such child and, upon conviction,
shall be fined by the court in an amount not exceeding $100. Any minor child
under the age of 16 years who shall violate the provisions of §
132.04 shall upon conviction be fined by the court in an amount not exceeding
$100.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Aiding and abetting
   
133.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
133.03   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
133.04   Refusing to aid police officer; resisting; hindering
   
133.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
133.06   False reporting
§ 133.01 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   A person who aids, abets, procures or causes another to commit any offense
may be prosecuted and punished as if the person were the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 6-329) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 REFUSING TO AID POLICE OFFICER; RESISTING; HINDERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to hinder,
obstruct or resist any police officer in making any arrest or performing any
other duty of his or her office, or to refuse or neglect to assist any police
officer when called upon by him or her in the making of any arrest or the
conveyance of a prisoner to jail.
(Prior Code, § 6-331) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state, or any county, city or village for the
purpose of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official
authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false to any peace officer
or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation or an alleged
criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter;
   (B)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of an emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any
hospital, ambulance company or other person or governmental agency which deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property;
   (C)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed, by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or
Police Department, or any personnel or equipment of the Fire Department or
Police Department; or
   (D)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) (Ord. 445, passed 6-19-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Littering
   
134.02   Abatement of nuisance
Substance Offenses
   
134.15   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
134.16   Chemicals prohibited; use, furnishing, sale, exceptions
   
134.17   Minors; unlawfully selling, dispensing or possessing alcohol
Weapons Offenses
   
134.30   Discharge of firearms
   
134.31   Concealed weapons
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the
state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 134.15 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To consume or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor in the public streets, alleys, roads, highway or parking
areas, or any other property owned by or under the control of the state or any
governmental subdivision, except as allowed by permit issued by the City
Council;
      (2)   To consume or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open
to the general public (including parking areas or lots) except as permitted by
a license issued for the premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.;
      (3)   To consumer or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor inside a motor vehicle unless the alcoholic liquor is located
so that no occupant of the motor vehicle shall have access to it while the
vehicle is in motion; or
      (4)   To consume any alcoholic liquor other than beer upon a premises
licensed for the sale of beer at retail only.
   (B)   A container of alcoholic liquor shall be considered an open container
if the seal of the original package is broken.
(Prior Code, § 6-332) (Ord. 553, passed 4-5-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.16 CHEMICALS PROHIBITED; USE, FURNISHING, SALE, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Inhaling, drinking, internal use, prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person to breathe, inhale, drink or in any manner use internally any
toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl
ethyl ketone, trichloroethane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl
cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, any compound, substance or liquid
(including, but not limited to, glue, paint, cement or adhesive) containing any
of such chemicals, or any solvent having the property of releasing toxic vapors
or fumes, for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication inebriation,
stupefaction, depression, giddiness, exhilaration, paralysis or irrational
behavior, or in any manner changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory,
visual or mental process or in any way dulling the brain or nervous system.
(Prior Code, § 6-333)
   (B)   Aiding, counseling, furnishing, restricted. It shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to aid or counsel, or furnish to, another to use for any
purpose prohibited by division (A) above any chemical or any compound,
substance or liquid containing any chemical described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-334)
   (C)   Sale restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any
chemical, or any compound, substance or liquid containing any chemical
described in division (A) above for the purpose of use to breathe, inhale,
drink or in any manner use internally.
(Prior Code, § 6-335)
   (D)   Exceptions; physicians and surgeons. Anything in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) above to the contrary notwithstanding, the prohibitions and
restrictions contained in such sections shall not apply to the use, the aiding
or counseling in the use, or the furnishing or sale for use, of chemicals, or
the chemicals described in division (A) above, to the extent they are
prescribed by a medical doctor or individual under the supervision and
direction of a medical doctor.
(Prior Code, § 6-336)
(Ord. 613, passed 10-6-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.17 MINORS; UNLAWFULLY SELLING, DISPENSING OR POSSESSING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-168.06, no minor may sell, dispense,
consume or have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys,
roads or highways, upon property owned by the city or any subdivision thereof,
or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but not
limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, or upon property
owned by the city or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume,
possess or have physical control of alcoholic liquor in his or her permanent
place of residence or on the premises of a place of religious worship on which
premises alcoholic liquor is consumed as a part of religious rite, ritual or
ceremony.
   (B)   The governing bodies of cities shall have the power to, and may by
applicable resolution or ordinance, regulate, suppress and control the
transportation, consumption or knowing possession of or having under his or her
control beer or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle,
by any person under 21 years of age, and may provide penalties for violations
of such resolution or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-337) (Ord. 655, passed 6-3-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 134.30 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 134.31 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to carry about his, her or
their person any concealed pistol, revolver, knife, billy club, slingshot,
metal knuckles or other dangerous weapon of any kind. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
135.01   Public indecency
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Child sex offender in child safety zone
   
135.04   Sexual predator residency restrictions
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) above
if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as required
by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the owner or
operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted unlawful
gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises of the
retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C)(3), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the State Bingo Act, the State County and City
Lottery Act, the State Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Pickle Card Lottery
Act, the State Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act or Neb. RS
9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the State Racetrack Gaming Act.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, see Neb. RS 77-3001 et seq.
   State Bingo Act, see Neb. RS 9-201
   State County and City Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.
   State Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-701 or 9-801 et seq.
   State Lottery and Raffle Act, see Neb. RS 9-401 et seq.
   State Pickle Card Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-301 et seq.
   State Racetrack Gaming Act, see Neb. RS 9-1101
   State Small Lottery and Raffle Act, see Neb. RS 9-501 et seq.
§ 135.03 CHILD SEX OFFENDER IN CHILD SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural
number include the singular and words in the singular number include the
plural. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
       CHILD SAFETY ZONE. All schools, city parks and public ways within 500
feet of a school or city park.
      CHILD SEX OFFENDER.
         (a)   A person who pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 28 has been convicted or
has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendre for an offense under any one of
the following provisions of the state statutes:
            1.   Neb. RS 28-320.01 (Sexual Assault of a Child);
            2.   Neb. RS 28-703 (Incest);
            3.   Neb. RS 28-1463.03 (Visual Depiction of Sexually Explicit
Conduct);
            4.   Neb. RS 28-311 (Child Enticement);
            5.   Neb. RS 28-320.02 (Sexual Assault by Use of Computer);
            6.   Neb. RS 28-813.01 (Visual Depiction of Sexually Explicit
Conduct Involving a Child);
            7.   Neb. RS 28-1463.05 (Visual Depiction of Sexually Explicit Acts
with a Child Related to Possession of the Same);
            8.   Neb. RS 28-319(1)(c) (Sexual Assault of a Minor); and/or
            9.   All crimes involving a child enumerated in Neb. RS 29-4003(1)
(a)(xii).
         (b)   A person who has been convicted or has entered a plea of guilty
or nolo contendre for an offense under any substantially similar federal law or
law of another state, or law of a foreign country, or the Uniform Code of
Military Justice, being Neb. RS 55-401 et seq. or similar state counterpart, or
the attempt to commit a sex offense.
      CITY PARK.
         (a)   Land owned or controlled by a unit of local government that is
designated by the unit of local government for use solely or primarily for
children’s recreation; and
         (b)   City recreational areas, including, but not limited to, a forest
preserve, conservation area, jogging trail, hiking trail, water park, swimming
pool, soccer field, baseball field or school playground under the jurisdiction
of a unit of local government.
      LOITER. Standing, sitting idly, whether or not the person is in a vehicle
or remaining in or around a school, city park property or public way.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, common areas of
schools, shopping centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, transportation
facilities, theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, taverns, cafés,
arcades and similar areas that are open to the use of the public.
      SCHOOL. Any institution that is designated by a unit of local government
for instruction of educational material.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter
in any city park as defined herein.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter
at any school as defined herein.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter
on a public way within 500 feet of a school or city park as defined herein.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures. If a police officer reasonably believes that a
child sex offender is in a city park or at a school in violation of this
section, the officer shall require the child sex offender to provide his or her
name, address and telephone number. If it is established that the individual is
a child sex offender, then the officer shall notify the child sex offender that
he or she is in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-338) (Ord. 681, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.04 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than, one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq., who has been
classified as Level 3 because of a high risk of recidivism as determined by the
State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of
age or younger.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   (B)   Residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500
feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the sexual predator’s residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or one of its political subdivisions;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006 and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006 and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-339) (Ord. 686, passed 6-6-2006) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
135.03, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 6-338)
   (C)   A person who violates §
135.04(B) shall be punished by paying a fine of no more than $250 for any one
violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-339)
(Ord. 681, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 686, passed 6-6-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permits
   
150.02   Building codes adopted
   
150.03   Abatement of nuisance
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Building Inspector
   
150.30   Power and authority
   
150.31   Right of entry
   
150.32   Permit cards
   
150.33   Time of inspection
   
150.34   Appeal from decision
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge or demolish any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Zoning Administrator an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose. Such application shall set forth:
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place; the nature of the use or occupancy; the principal dimensions;
the estimated cost; the names of the owner, architect and contractor; and such
other information as may be requested thereon.
   (B)   The application, plans and specifications so filed with the Zoning
Administrator shall be checked and examined by him or her, and if they are
found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other
ordinances applicable thereto, the Zoning Administrator shall issue the
applicant a permit. The permit shall be issued after payment of a permit fee
based upon the valuation of the improvement or improvements at the rate of
$4.50 per $1,000 of valuation, but shall not in any event be lower than $35 for
any single improvement. In addition, there shall be a fee of $4.50 for each on-
site inspection required by the Building Inspector. There shall be a $35
minimum fee and a $4.50 fee per site inspection plus $5.50 per $1,000 of
valuation on electrical and plumbing permits that do not involve a building
permit. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 444, passed 6-5-1984; Ord. 542, passed 6-8-1993;
Ord. 685, passed 5-9-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in
buildings hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired,
relocated and converted, the following building codes are hereby adopted by the
city:
      (1)   The B.O.C.A. Basic/National Building Code, as amended;
      (2)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, as amended;
      (3)   B.O.C.A. Basic/National Plumbing Code, as amended;
      (4)   B.O.C.A. Basic/National Mechanic Code, as amended; and
      (5)   The National Electrical Code, as amended.
   (B)   These codes are printed in book and pamphlet form and are hereby
incorporated by reference, in addition to all amendments that may be made from
time to time, as though printed in full herein, insofar as said code does not
conflict with the state statutes. One copy of each of the building codes shall
be maintained on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and are
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of these
building codes shall control throughout the municipality and throughout its
zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 444, passed 6-5-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902 and 19-922
§ 150.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-502)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used and such other information as the City Council may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the application to the City
Council or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the
building is to be moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
the permit; provided, that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check
or cash in an amount set by motion of the City Council and conditioned upon
moving the building without doing damage to any private or city property is
filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk-Treasurer as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from
the relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall return the corporate surety
bond, cash or check deposited by the applicant.
   (B)   In the event the basement, foundation or portion thereof is not
properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary condition, the City Council
may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of
correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition
is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City Council, the City
Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed
by law.
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.30 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as
necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have
the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council, all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or she
shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when the City Council is satisfied that
no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the city has building and
housing regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
Chief City Law Enforcement Officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.31 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   Maintenance and control
   
151.003   Permitted use of public street space
   
151.004   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
151.005   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.006   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.007   Weeds; removal; assessment of costs
   
151.008   Overhanging branches
   
151.009   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
151.010   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
151.025   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
151.026   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
151.027   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election
requirements
Sidewalks
   
151.040   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.041   Maintenance
   
151.042   Repair
   
151.043   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
151.044   Construction and repair at city’s direction
   
151.045   Construction bids
   
151.046   Construction by petition
Streets and Alleys
   
151.060   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
151.061   Crossings
   
151.062   Names and numbers
   
151.063   Excavation
   
151.064   Driving stakes
   
151.065   Mixing concrete
   
151.066   Harmful liquids
   
151.067   Construction notice
   
151.068   Construction assessment
   
151.069   Petition for improvements
   
151.070   Improvement districts; objections
   
151.071   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
151.072   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
151.073   Deferral from special assessments
 
   
151.999   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREET COMMISSIONER. The city official with general charge, direction
and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for
streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, CITY STREET
COMMISSIONER shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is
used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 151.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.003 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with the building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application
to and receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Commissioner.
   (B)   No permit shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
or sidewalk is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired.
A suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public
space included in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted
in the manner required by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or
relocated. The Council shall designate another location as closely as possible
where the appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 151.005 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.006 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 WEEDS; REMOVAL; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Zoning Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized agent, to view and inspect the lots and lands within the corporate
limits for growing weeds and worthless vegetation. If growing weeds and
worthless vegetation, which shall include noxious weeds, are found growing on
property within the corporate limits of the city, the Zoning Administrator
shall give notice to the property owners to destroy or remove the weeds from
the property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a property owner shall be in
violation of this section if weeds grow in excess of eight inches, or if there
is presence of any noxious weeds regardless of how high they may be. If an
owner of property fails, neglects or refuses after five days notice by
publication or by personal service to destroy or remove the weeds from property
within the corporate limits of the city, the Zoning Administrator shall arrange
for the destruction and removal of the weeds from the property.
   (C)   Notice by publication can be accomplished by posting a notice on the
premises and by publication in a newspaper in general circulation within the
corporate limits of the city. If the municipality shall cut the weeds or
arrange for spraying noxious weeds, the cost shall be a minimum of $100, plus
$30 per hour per person in excess of each hour or part of an hour that the
municipal employees are engaged in this activity. The cost thereof shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall
be collected as other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of land.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-106) (Ord. 510, passed 10-2-1990; Ord. 649, passed 3-4-2003)
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.008 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk-Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be
the duty of the Street Commissioner to inspect the proposed place of entry into
the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Commissioner, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Street
Commissioner, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer a sum set by resolution of
the Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set
on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained
by the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the city. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the city until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Street Commissioner or of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the Council in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.010 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or
damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the city police
are authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. This
prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter, inclusive of the stud-
casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than
seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that
school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be permitted
to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the year.
Penalty, see §
151.999
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 151.025 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 151.026 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 151.027 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building or community house for
housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other public
buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be constructed
by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, and including construction of buildings to be
leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such buildings, and
maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the
city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division may be submitted as one question at a general city
or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, or
the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental subdivision
of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased by the state
or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental subdivision of the
state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when such sum does not
exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.040 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots, or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots, within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks, or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All
sidewalks within the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after
the cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken
place during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:00
a.m. the following day. All sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
   (B)   If the owner of the property fails, neglects or refuses after one day
notice by posting or by personal service to remove the snow, sleet, mud, ice or
other substance from the sidewalk, the City Administrator shall arrange for the
removal of snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance from the sidewalk. If the
municipality shall remove the snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance, the
cost shall be a minimum of $50 for an interior lot and $100 for a corner lot.
The cost thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a
special tax thereon and shall be collected as other taxes of the municipality
or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner
of the parcel of land. In the event that the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against the property, send a copy of any notice required
by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such
required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) (Ord. 680, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 151.041 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk,
and the governing body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (Prior Code, § 8-202)
§ 151.042 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent may require sidewalks of the municipality
to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice.
   (B)   No special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said
owner shall neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the
event that such owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs
to be made and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 151.043 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Street Commissioner shall submit the application to the
City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted or
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.044 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY’S DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed.
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 151.045 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   (A)   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace or
reconstruct any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying
the work to be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the
necessary materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, that bids
so invited shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within
ten days after the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next
regular or special meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall
then award the work to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the
work, the governing body may require the contractor to accept payment in
certificates issued to him or her by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer entitling
him or her to all assessments or special taxes against such real estate
whenever such assessments or special taxes shall be collected together with the
interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal
description of the lot, lots or parcel of ground against which the assessments
or special taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates may be assigned
and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if held by the
original contractor.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder
of the certificate or certificates all assessments or special taxes against
such real estate, together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time
upon presentation of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or
special taxes against such real estate together with interest or penalty
thereon shall have been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
§ 151.046 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   (A)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the
front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for
sidewalk improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the
governing body shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property, subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
governing body may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
subchapter upon the freeholder making, executing and delivering to the
municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will
pay the engineering service fee, and all other incidental construction costs
until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the
freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner
gives and grants to the municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of
such construction against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed and specially assessed as
provided by law.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
Cross-reference:
   Streets; improvement district; creation by petition; denial; special
assessments, see Neb. RS 17-510 et seq.
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 151.060 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following.
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there.
         (b)   There is reserved to the city any public utilities and any cable
television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public, or the abutting properties, and to enter upon the premises to
accomplish such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul, vacate or
discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 151.061 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the
application to the Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and make a
recommendation to the City Council. Action by the City Council on the
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
§ 151.062 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, upon the erection
of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give
notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.063 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.065 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.066 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction, and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 151.068 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law.
   (B)   All special assessments shall be made by the governing body at a
regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account the benefits
derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such improvements and the
amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice
of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held
shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or of general
circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same shall be
held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon
the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such assessments
shall be known as a special assessments for improvements and with the cost of
notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to the taxes
for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in
like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the County Clerk
by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 151.069 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer,
petitioning therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work
to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and
shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent
to such street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefited thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (Prior Code, § 8-313)
§ 151.070 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body shall deem it necessary to make any
improvements allowed by statute, the governing body shall by ordinance create a
paving, graveling or other improvement district or districts, and after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district or districts for six days in a
legal newspaper of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two
consecutive weeks, if the same be a weekly newspaper.
   (B)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of the
front footage of the property directly abutting on the street, streets, alley
or alleys to be improved, shall file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within
20 days after the first publication of said notice, written objections to the
creation of such district or districts, said improvements shall not be made as
provided in said ordinance; but said ordinance shall be repealed. If said
objections are not filed against the district in the time and manner aforesaid,
the governing body shall forthwith cause such work to be done or such
improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments
on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street,
streets, alley or alleys especially benefited thereby in such district in
proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (Prior Code, § 8-314)
§ 151.071 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-509) (Prior Code, § 8-315)
§ 151.072 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a three-fourths’ vote of
the governing body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling or other
improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or state
highway in the municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the Mayor
and City Council as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either
a federal or state highway or a county road. The governing body shall contract
therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits,
the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby.
(Neb. RS 17-512) (Prior Code, § 8-316)
§ 151.073 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For the purpose of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 8-601) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Planting, maintenance and removal
   
152.02   Commercial tree trimmers and removers
§ 152.01 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to promote and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the
city.
   (B)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board which shall
consist of seven members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. Members of the
Board shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   The term of the seven persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
three years, except that the term of three of the members appointed to the
first Board shall be for only one year, and the term of three members of the
first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
   (D)   This section provides for full power and authority over all trees,
plants and shrubs located within street rights-of-way, parks and public places
of the city; and to trees, plants and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat as described herein.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
planting, cutting, trimming, pruning, removing, spraying or otherwise treating
trees, shrubs or vines within the city without first producing evidence of
certification or license before the city. The requirements of §
152.02 shall be complied with.
   (F)   In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial property
occurs, the City Forester shall review landscaping plans and may require street
trees to be planted in any of the streets, parking lots, parks and other public
places abutting lands henceforth developed and/or subdivided.
   (G)   (1)   Size classes. The Tree Board develops and maintains a list of
desirable trees for planting along streets in three size classes: small, medium
and large.
      (2)   Tree spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance
with the three species size classes listed in division (G)(1) above, and no
trees may be planted closer together than the following, except in special
planting designed or approved by a landscape architect:
 
Small trees  30 feet
Medium trees 40 feet
Large trees  50 feet
 
      (3)   Utilities. No street trees other than those species listed herein
as small trees may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet, or any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
      (4)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curb lines or sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in division (G)(1) above, and no trees may be
planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following:
 
Small trees  2 feet
Medium trees 3 feet
Large trees  4 feet
 
      (5)   Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on
public property. For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree’s crown to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires, or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the City Tree Board.
   (H)   No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground or disturb any
tree on any street, park or other public place without first filing an
application and procuring a permit from the City Forester. The person receiving
the permit shall abide by the standards set forth in this section.
   (I)   Upon the discovery of any destructive or communicable disease or other
pestilence which endangers the growth or health of trees, or threatens to
spread disease of insect infestations, the City Forester shall at once cause
written notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such
diseased or infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require such
property owner to eradicate, remove or otherwise control such condition within
reasonable time to be specified in such notice.
   (J)   The City Forester or his or her official designee has the authority to
enter onto private property whereon there is located a tree, shrub, plant or
plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance and to order its removal
if necessary.
   (K)   If within 30 days of receipt of such notice the owner or occupant
makes a written request for hearing before the City Council, further
proceedings shall be suspended until a hearing is held before the City Council.
The suspension shall not apply to a nuisance and notice that exists with
reference to §
91.16. At such hearing, the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of the
property may present evidence to rebut the determination that a nuisance
exists. After considering all relevant evidence, the City Council may order the
nuisance abated or removed within the time specified by the City Council, the
Mayor or his or her designee shall cause the city to remove the nuisance.
Statement of the costs of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
and after notice and hearing the governing body may levy the cost as a special
assessment against the property. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the
property and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 650, passed 4-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 COMMERCIAL TREE TRIMMERS AND REMOVERS.
   All persons engaged commercially in the business of tree trimming, cutting
down trees or removing the trees within the city limits shall, before engaging
in such activity, obtain a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer or other person
authorized to issue such permit. Before issuing the permit, the applicant will
have to provide proof to the City Clerk-Treasurer that the applicant has
liability insurance in a minimum amount of $10,000 to cover for damages to
public or private property arising out of the business of tree trimming and
removing trees within the city limits. An occupation tax of $25 shall be levied
before the permit is issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall be
good for one calendar year from the date of issuance. This charge shall be in
addition to any charge to the commercial tree trimmer for the use of the city
dump. All fees levied pursuant to this section and terms and conditions of
issuance of the permit shall and may be established by the governing body by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
   
153.02   Zoning regulations adopted
   
153.03   Subdivision regulations adopted
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate the anticipated long range future growth, the
comprehensive development plan for the city, as prepared by the governing body
and the Planning Commission, in its revised format, is hereby adopted. Three
copies of the adopted plan shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 585, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 153.02 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the city, as
prepared by the governing body and the Planning Commission and published in
pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance 399, passed on November 4, 1980.
Three copies of the adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 153.03 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the comprehensive plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience or prosperity; to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality;
and to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the subdivision regulations for the city, as
prepared by the governing body and the Planning Commission and published in
pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance 384, passed on December 4, 1979.
Three copies of the adopted subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply or for each separate incident constituting a violation.
   (B)   Any person failing to appear or otherwise comply with the command of a
citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 626, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 658, passed 8-5-2003)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
333      3-4-1975    Granting telephone franchise to the United Telephone
                     Company of the West.
                   (Prior Code, § 10-703)
405      4-7-1981    Granting natural gas franchise to the Kansas-Nebraska
                     Natural Gas Company, Inc.
                   (Prior Code, § 10-701)
407      5-19-1981   Granting cable television franchise to Metro Enterprises,
                     Inc.
                   (Prior Code, § 10-702)
                    
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     City authorized participation in the Electrical Resources
385      1-8-1980    Pooling Agreement with the Nebraska Municipal Power Pool
                     as a bulk power participant.
                   (Prior Code, § 3-1001)
390      5-6-1980    Adopting and executing Schedule K-1 to the Electrical
                     Resource Pooling Agreement.
                   (Prior Code, § 3-1001)
419      1-5-1982    City authorized to become a participant in the Municipal
                     Energy Agency of Nebraska.
                   (Prior Code, § 3-1002)
421      4-6-1982    Adopting and executing Schedule M, Total Power
                     Requirements Power Purchase Agreement.
                   (Prior Code, § 3-1002)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites                Code Section
3-401 et seq.                34.41;
                             35.36
3-501                        34.41;
                             35.36
9-165                        112.17
9-166                        112.15
9-201 et seq.                112.18;
                             135.02
9-201                        135.02
9-239                        112.16
9-301 et seq.                135.02
9-401 et seq.                135.02
9-501 et seq.                135.02
9-601 et seq.                135.02
9-701                        135.02
9-801 et seq.                135.02
9-1101                       135.02
10-101 through 10-143        34.09
10-606 through 10-612        34.09
11-101                       31.02
11-101.01                    33.13
11-104                       31.01
11-105                       31.01
11-109                       31.01
11-110                       31.01
11-111                       31.01
11-112                       31.01
11-113                       31.01
11-114                       31.01
11-115                       31.01
11-116                       31.01
11-117                       31.01
11-118                       31.01
13-501 et seq.               34.25
13-504                       34.22
13-505                       34.22
13-506                       34.23
13-508                       34.24
13-606                       34.01
13-801                       34.41
13-903                       34.03
13-2501                      34.41
16-318(3)                    31.19
16-691.01                    34.08
17-103                       30.16
17-104                       30.16;
                             30.17
17-105                       31.43
17-106                       31.43
                             30.01;
                             30.03;
17-107                       31.15;
                             31.22;
                             32.52
17-107.01                    30.17
17-108                       31.65
                             30.02;
17-108.02                    30.19;
                             31.16
17-110                       30.02
17-111                       30.02
17-112                       30.02
17-113                       30.02
17-114                       30.02
17-117                       30.02
17-119                       31.22;
                             31.24
17-120                       112.02—
                             112.04
                             32.04;
17-121                       91.02;
                             91.03
17-129                       132.01
17-130 through 17-132        150.01
17-134                       110.20;
                             110.21
17-142                       150.15
17-143                       113.01
17-144                       113.01
17-147                       32.25
17-148                       30.15
17-150                       31.25
17-207                       112.02
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       151.025
17-503.01                    151.025
17-503.02                    151.026
17-505                       35.01;
                             91.99
17-509                       151.071
17-509 through 17-521        151.044
17-510                       151.069
17-511                       151.068;
                             151.070
17-512                       151.072
17-522                       151.044
17-524                       151.044;
                             151.068
                             110.03;
17-525                       110.20;
                             112.02
                             92.21—
17-526                       92.24;
                             92.27
17-531                       52.02
17-534                       52.02
17-536                       52.13
                             52.03;
                             52.06;
17-537                       52.10;
                             52.11;
                             52.14
17-538                       52.09
17-540                       34.08;
                             52.20
17-541                       31.22
17-542                       52.08
17-543                       31.22
17-548                       92.28
17-550                       150.01
17-551                       113.01
17-552                       113.01;
                             113.03
                             91.35—
                             91.39;
                             93.29;
17-556                       93.45;
                             93.46;
                             132.01;
                             134.30
17-557                       151.040
17-557.01                    151.041
17-558                       151.060
17-559                       151.060
17-561                       113.02
17-563                       91.20
17-567                       151.002
17-568                       31.25
17-568.01                    31.25
17-574                       53.001;
                             53.003
17-602                       33.14
17-604                       31.01;
                             31.65
17-605                       31.18
17-606                       31.19
17-606(2)                    31.19
17-607                       34.07
17-608                       34.08
17-609                       34.08
17-610                       31.20
17-611                       31.65
17-612                       31.65
                             35.04;
17-613                       35.06—
                             35.08
                             10.15;
17-614                       35.04;
                             35.05;
                             35.09
17-615                       35.07
17-616                       35.05
17-701                       34.20
17-702                       34.06;
                             34.42
17-706                       34.25
17-708                       34.02
17-710                       34.05
17-711                       34.02
17-714                       34.03
17-715                       34.03
17-718                       32.25
17-801                       32.05
17-802                       32.05
17-802.01                    32.05
17-803                       34.08
17-805                       32.05
17-806                       32.05
17-807                       32.05
17-808                       32.05
17-810                       32.05
                             50.16;
                             50.18—
17-902                       50.21;
                             50.25;
                             53.003
17-902 through 17-904        50.15
17-906                       50.15
17-909                       50.15
17-919                       31.25
17-948                       90.01;
                             90.15
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
                             90.01;
17-949                       90.16—
                             90.18
17-951                       90.01;
                             90.15
17-952                       90.01;
                             90.15
17-953                       151.027
17-953 et seq.               32.25
17-953.01                    151.027
17-954                       151.027
17-1001                      150.01;
                             150.02
17-1237 et seq.              34.08
17-1269 et seq.              34.08
17-1336                      113.01
18-131                       35.06
                             35.01;
18-132                       93.25;
                             150.02
18-305 through 18-312        31.66
18-412                       35.38
18-412.02                    35.38
18-1001 through 18-1006      151.025
18-1216                      34.04
18-1701                      31.18
18-1719                      91.20
                             70.12;
                             91.15;
18-1720                      91.21;
                             134.02;
                             150.03
                             70.12;
18-1722                      91.21;
                             134.02;
                             150.03
18-1737                      71.31;
                             71.39
18-1739                      71.31;
                             71.32
18-1741.01                   71.38
18-1741.02                   71.38
18-1801 through 18-1805      34.09
18-2801 et seq.              34.41
18-2501 through 18-2511      35.25
18-2501 through 18-2531      35.99
18-2512                      35.26
18-2513                      35.26
18-2514                      35.27
18-2515                      35.27
18-2516                      35.28
18-2519                      35.31
18-2520                      35.32
18-2521                      35.33
18-2522                      35.34
18-2523 through 18-2526      35.35
18-2527                      35.36
18-2528                      35.36
18-2529 through 18-2531      35.37
18-2532 through 18-2535      35.99
18-2536                      35.38
18-2537                      35.38
                             32.05;
18-2801 et seq.              34.20;
                             34.22
18-2804                      34.01
18-3301                      31.25
19-613                       30.17;
                             30.19
                             91.01;
19-902                       93.25;
                             150.02
19-912.01                    32.03
19-915                       35.09
                             35.01;
19-922                       93.25;
                             150.02
19-925 through 19-929        32.02
19-1101                      31.19
19-1102                      31.18
19-1103                      31.18;
                             31.19
19-1301                      34.06
19-1302                      34.06
19-1303                      34.06
19-1304                      34.06
19-1305                      52.02
19-1309                      34.40
19-1310                      34.40
19-1311                      34.40
19-1312                      34.40
19-2417 through 19-2419      151.044
19-2428 through 19-2431      151.073
19-2701                      50.16;
                             53.003
19-2902                      34.01
19-2903                      34.01
19-2904                      34.01
19-2905                      34.01
19-2906 through 19-2909      34.01
19-3001 et seq.              33.09
19-3301                      34.41
19-3701                      35.08
20-101 et seq.               94.06
23-122                       31.18
25-505.01                    33.19
25-1801                      50.02
25-21,275                    50.02
25-21,276                    50.02
25-21,277                    50.02
25-21,278                    50.02
25-2703                      35.01
Ch. 28                       135.03
Ch. 28, Art. 3               111.22
28-311                       135.03
28-318                       135.01
28-319(1)(c)                 135.03
28-320.01                    135.03
28-320.02                    135.03
Ch. 28, Art. 4               111.22
28-412                       131.01
28-519                       93.02;
                             93.03
28-523                       90.02;
                             134.01
28-609                       32.33
28-610                       133.02
Ch. 28, Art. 7               111.22
28-703                       135.03
Ch. 28, Art. 8               111.22
28-806                       135.01
28-813.01                    135.03
28-833                       135.02
28-904                       133.03
28-906                       92.25;
                             133.05
28-907                       133.06
28-908                       93.10
Ch. 28, Art. 10              111.22
28-1008                      92.01
28-1012                      92.05
Ch. 28, Art. 11              111.22
28-1101                      135.02
28-1102                      135.02
28-1103                      135.02
28-1104                      135.02
28-1107                      135.02
28-1108                      135.02
28-1109                      135.02
28-1110                      135.02
28-1111                      135.02
28-1112                      135.02
28-1113                      135.02
28-1117                      135.02
Ch. 28, Art. 12              111.22
28-1241                      93.45
28-1242                      93.46
28-1244                      93.45
28-1245                      93.45
28-1322                      132.02
28-1420 et seq.              110.01
28-1463.03                   135.03
28-1463.05                   135.03
28-1601                      135.02
29-4001 et seq.              135.04
29-4003(1)(a)(xii)           135.03
29-4013                      135.04
Ch. 32                       33.07
                             30.01;
32-101                       33.01;
                             34.06;
                             34.41
32-102                       33.14
32-109                       30.02
32-404                       33.01
32-405                       33.19
32-505                       33.07
32-533                       30.01
32-537(7)                    33.18
32-537(8)                    33.18
32-556                       33.01
32-558                       33.17
32-559                       33.07
32-560                       30.03
32-560 through 32-572        30.03
32-561                       30.03
32-562                       33.19
32-563                       30.19
32-567 through 32-570        33.19
32-568                       30.03
32-574                       33.19
32-603                       30.02
32-604                       30.02
32-608                       33.10;
                             33.11
32-615                       33.11
32-616                       33.11
32-617                       33.11
32-618                       33.11
32-621                       33.11
32-625(2)                    33.11
32-627                       33.11
32-628                       33.11;
                             151.025
32-628 through 32-631        34.41
32-629                       33.11;
                             33.19
32-630                       33.11;
                             33.19
32-710                       33.11
32-802                       33.02;
                             34.41
32-952 through 32-959        33.07
32-1204 et seq.              33.07
32-1205                      33.15
32-1301                      33.19
32-1302                      33.19
32-1303                      33.19
32-1304                      33.19
32-1305                      33.19
32-1306                      33.19
32-1307                      33.19
32-1308                      30.03;
                             33.19
32-1309                      33.19
32-1406                      30.18
33-139.01                    32.27
33-141                       31.19
35-102                       32.27
35-103                       32.27
35-106                       110.02
35-108                       32.27
35-514.02                    32.36
39-2512                      31.24
44-4301 through 44-4339      31.03
44-4303                      31.03
48-101 et seq.               32.27
48-115                       32.27
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      31.66
49-1425                      31.66
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 31.66
49-1499.04                   31.66
49-14,102                    31.66
49-14,103.01                 31.66
49-14,103.02                 31.66
49-14,103.03                 31.66
49-14,103.04                 31.66
49-14,103.05                 31.66
49-14,103.06                 31.66
51-201                       34.41
51-201 through 51-219        32.01
51-202                       32.01
51-204                       32.01
51-215                       34.06
51-216                       34.06
51-501                       34.41
                             111.03;
                             111.20—
                             111.23;
                             111.26;
53-101 et seq.               111.27;
                             111.29—
                             111.32;
                             111.53;
                             134.15
53-101.01                    111.26
53-102                       111.05;
                             111.26
53-103.01 through 53-103.42  111.01
53-116.01                    111.27
53-118                       111.47
53-123.12                    111.23
53-124                       110.01;
                             111.23
53-124.01                    111.23
53-124.15                    111.45
53-124.17                    111.23
53-125                       111.22
53-129                       111.23
53-131                       111.23;
                             111.24
53-132                       111.23
53-133                       111.23;
                             111.45
53-134                       111.23—
                             111.26
                             111.23;
53-134.03                    111.47;
                             111.52
53-134.04                    111.32
53-135                       111.28
53-135.01                    111.23;
                             111.28
53-148                       111.29
                             111.05;
53-168.06                    111.20;
                             111.26;
                             134.17
53-174                       111.50
53-175                       111.21
53-177                       111.45
53-177.01                    111.45
53-178                       111.46
53-179                       111.48
53-180                       111.02
53-183                       111.49
53-184                       111.51
53-186                       111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-194.03                    111.21
53-1,101                     111.30
53-1,102                     111.31
53-1,115                     111.32
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       92.26
54-602                       92.26
54-603                       92.21—
                             92.23
54-607                       92.24
55-401 et seq.               135.03
60-302                       70.55
60-323                       70.55
60-331.02                    71.30
60-399                       70.56
60-3,113                     71.31;
                             71.32
60-3,113.02                  71.38
60-3,113.03                  71.38
60-3,113.04                  71.35
60-3,113.05                  71.36
60-3,113.06                  71.37
60-462 et seq.               72.05
60-4,182                     70.26;
                             70.28
60-4,186                     70.55
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
                             70.03;
                             70.06;
                             70.29;
                             70.30;
                             70.34;
60-680                       70.36;
                             71.01—
                             71.03;
                             71.05;
                             71.07;
                             71.09
60-680(h)                    72.01
60-683                       70.42
60-696                       70.40;
                             70.99
60-697                       70.40
60-698                       70.99
60-699                       72.05
60-6,114                     71.12
60-6,116                     71.06;
                             71.08
60-6,119 through 60-6,121    70.03
60-6,131                     70.06
60-6,133                     70.06
60-6,136                     70.06;
                             70.31
60-6,139                     70.32
60-6,140                     70.33;
                             70.34
60-6,146 through 60-6,154    70.05
60-6,159                     70.04
60-6,166                     70.30;
                             93.05
60-6,167                     71.01;
                             71.02
60-6,169                     70.29
60-6,178                     70.38
60-6,179                     70.35
60-6,183                     70.33;
                             93.08
60-6,184                     93.07
60-6,192                     70.25
60-6,195                     70.44
60-6,211.08                  111.03
60-6,212                     70.27
60-6,213 through 60-6,218    70.26
60-6,219                     70.57;
                             72.02
60-6,220                     70.57
60-6,235                     70.57
60-6,243                     70.59
60-6,244                     70.57
60-6,254                     70.58
60-6,255                     70.58
60-6,256                     70.58
60-6,267                     70.10
60-6,272                     70.10
60-6,285                     70.43;
                             70.57
60-6,286                     70.39
60-6,304                     70.59
60-6,308                     70.32
60-6,315                     72.01
60-6,316                     70.37
60-6,317                     72.01
60-6,318                     72.01
60-6,347                     72.03
60-6,348                     72.03
60-6,352                     72.03
60-6,371                     70.39
60-1901 through 60-1911      71.13
70-504                       35.38
70-624.04                    31.66
70-650.01                    35.38
70-650.02                    35.38
70-1605 et seq.              50.01
70-1605                      52.08
70-1606                      52.08
71-423                       111.04
71-1552                      32.07
71-1572 through 71-15,168    32.07
71-1637                      34.41
71-1908 et seq.              135.04
71-4406                      92.29
71-4408                      92.28
71-4412                      92.21
Ch. 72, Art. 14              151.027
77-1343                      151.073
77-1606                      34.41
77-1632                      34.43
77-2201                      31.19
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.19
77-2202                      31.19
77-2209                      31.19
77-2210                      31.19
77-2212                      31.19
77-2337                      34.06
77-2341                      34.08
77-2362                      34.07
77-2363                      34.07
77-2364                      34.07
77-2365.01                   34.07
77-2366                      34.07
77-2386                      34.07
77-3001 et seq.              135.02
77-3442                      34.41;
                             90.01
77-3443                      34.41
77-3444                      34.41
80-202                       34.41
80-203 through 80-205        35.38
81-501.01 through 81-531     32.31
81-502                       93.25
81-506                       32.35
81-512                       32.31;
                             93.27
81-520.01                    93.30
81-542 et seq.               32.31
81-1438                      31.15;
                             32.52
81-1439 through 81-1446      32.52
81-2005                      70.41
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.18;
                             31.19
84-712(2)                    31.18
84-1201 et seq.              31.18
84-1407 et seq.              31.46
84-1408                      31.41
84-1409                      31.40;
                             31.41
84-1409(2)                   31.40
84-1410                      31.45
                             31.41;
84-1411                      31.42;
                             31.44
84-1412                      31.46
                             31.41;
84-1413                      31.48;
                             31.49
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code Section
Prior Code 2024 Code Section
1-103      30.16
1-104      30.17
1-105      30.18
1-107      30.19
1-201      31.15
1-203      31.17
1-208      31.20
1-209      31.21
1-215      31.22
1-216      31.23
1-217      31.26
1-401      11.01
1-501      31.40
1-503      31.41
1-510      31.43
1-512      31.50
1-513      31.51
1-606      35.05
1-609      35.08
1-611      35.10
1-702      33.03
1-703      33.04
1-704      33.05
1-705      33.06
1-706      33.07
1-708      33.08
1-709      33.09
1-712      33.12
1-713      33.13
1-714      33.14
1-715      33.15
1-716      33.16
1-717      33.17
1-718      33.18
1-802      34.22
1-803      34.23
1-804      34.24
1-823      34.04
1-824      34.43
1-903      31.67
1-1001     35.25
1-1002     35.26
1-1003     35.27
1-1004     35.28
1-1005     35.29
1-1006     35.30
1-1007     35.31
1-1008     35.32
1-1009     35.33
1-1010     35.34
1-1011     35.35
1-1012     35.36
1-1013     35.37
1-1014     35.99
1-1015     35.38
1-1101     31.03
2-101      30.20
2-202      32.02
2-203      32.03
2-204      32.04
2-207.01   32.06
2-208      32.07
2-209      32.07
2-210      32.07
2-211      32.08
2-212      32.09
2-213      32.09
2-214      32.09
2-216      32.10
2-301      32.99
3-101      52.02
3-102      52.01
3-103      52.03
3-104      52.04
3-105      52.05
3-106      52.06
3-107      52.06
3-108      52.07
3-109      52.20
3-110      52.08
3-111      52.09
3-112      52.10
3-113      52.11
3-114      52.12
3-115      52.13
3-116      52.14
3-117      52.15
3-118      52.16
3-119      52.17;
           52.99
3-120      52.35
3-121      52.35
3-122      52.35
3-123      52.35
3-124      52.36
3-125      52.37
3-126      52.38
3-127      52.39
3-128      52.39
3-129      52.40
3-130      52.40
3-131      52.40
3-132      52.35
3-133      52.18
3-134      52.19
3-201      53.001
3-202      53.002
3-203      53.003
3-204      53.004
3-205      53.005
3-206      53.006
3-207      53.007
3-208      53.025
3-209      53.026
3-210      53.027
3-211      53.028
3-212      53.040
3-213      53.041
3-214      53.042
3-215      53.043
3-216      53.044
3-217      53.045
3-218      53.046
3-219      53.047
3-220      53.048
3-221      53.008
3-222      53.009
3-223      53.010
3-224      53.060
3-225      53.061
3-226      53.062
3-227      53.063
3-228      53.064
3-229      53.065
3-230      53.066
3-231      53.066
3-232      53.067
3-233      53.068
3-234      53.080
3-235      53.081
3-236      53.082
3-237      53.083
3-239      53.999
3-301      50.15
3-302      50.16
3-303      50.17
3-304      50.18
3-305      50.19
3-307      50.20
3-308      50.21
3-309      50.22
3-310      50.23
3-311      50.24
3-312      50.25
3-313      50.26
3-314      50.27
3-315      50.28
3-316      50.29
3-401      50.01
3-506      32.30
3-509      32.33
3-510      32.34
3-512      32.36
3-801      90.15
3-802      90.16
3-803      90.17
3-804      90.18
3-1001     TSO Table II
3-1002     TSO Table II
3-1101     50.99
4-103      91.01
4-201      51.01
4-202      51.02
4-203      51.03
4-204      51.04
4-205      51.05
4-206      51.06
4-207      51.07
4-208      51.08
4-209      51.09
4-210      51.10
4-211      51.11
4-212      51.12
4-213      51.13
4-214      51.14
4-301      91.15
4-302      91.15
4-303      91.16
4-304      91.17
4-305      91.18
4-306      91.19
4-401      91.35
4-402      91.36
4-403      91.37
4-404      91.38
4-405      91.39
4-406      91.99
4-501      91.99
4-502      91.21
5-102      70.01
5-201      70.02
5-202      70.03
5-203      Ch. 73 Schd. IV
5-204      70.04;
           Ch. 73 Schd. II
5-205      70.04
5-206      70.05
5-207      70.06
5-208      70.06
5-209      70.06
5-210      Ch. 73 Schd. III
5-211      70.07
5-212      Ch. 73 Schd. V
5-213      Ch. 73 Schd. VII
5-214      Ch. 73 Schd. VI
5-215      70.08
5-216      70.08
5-217      70.08
5-218      70.09
5-219      70.10
5-220      70.11
5-301      70.25;
           Ch. 73 Schd. I
5-302      70.25
5-303      70.26
5-304      70.26
5-305      70.27
5-306      70.28
5-307      70.29
5-308      70.30
5-309      70.31
5-310      70.32
5-311      70.33
5-312      70.33
5-313      70.34
5-314      70.35
5-315      70.36
5-316      70.37
5-317      70.38
5-318      70.39
5-319      70.40
5-320      70.99
5-321      70.41
5-322      70.42
5-323      70.43
5-324      70.44
5-401      70.55
5-402      70.55
5-403      70.56
5-404      70.57
5-405      70.58
5-406      70.59
5-407      70.59
5-408      70.60
5-409      70.61
5-501      72.01
5-502      72.01
5-503      72.02
5-504      72.03
5-505      72.03
5-506      72.04;
           Ch. 73 Schd. VIII
5-601      71.01
5-602      71.02
5-603      71.03;
           Ch. 74 Schd. I
5-604      71.04
5-605      71.05
5-606      Ch. 74 Schd. III
5-607      Ch. 74 Schd. II
5-608      71.06
5-609      71.07
5-611      71.08
5-612      71.09
5-613      71.10
5-614      71.11
5-615      71.12
5-616      71.13;
           71.99
5-617      71.14
5-618      Ch. 74 Schd. IV
5-620      71.15
5-621      71.30
5-622      71.31
5-623      71.32
5-624      71.33
5-625      71.34
5-626      71.35
5-627      71.36
5-628      71.37
5-629      71.38
5-630      71.39
5-631      71.16
5-701      70.99
5-702      70.12
6-101      92.21
6-102      92.22
6-103      92.23
6-104      92.20
6-105      92.24
6-106      92.25
6-107      92.26
6-108      92.27
6-109      92.28
6-110      92.29
6-111      92.30;
           92.99
6-112      92.31
6-201      92.02
6-202      92.03
6-203      92.04
6-204      92.01
6-205      92.05
6-206      92.05
6-207      92.06
6-301      131.01;
           131.99
6-302      131.02
6-303      132.03
6-309      91.20;
           91.99
6-311      134.31
6-315      130.01
6-316      132.01
6-317      93.45
6-318      93.46
6-319      93.47
6-320      132.04
6-320      132.99
6-321      133.06
6-325      130.03
6-326      130.04;
           130.99
6-327      130.07
6-327.01   130.07
6-328      130.05
6-329      133.01
6-330      130.06
6-331      133.04
6-332      134.15
6-333      134.16
6-334      134.16
6-335      134.16
6-336      134.16
6-337      134.17
6-338      135.03;
           135.99
6-339      135.04;
           135.99
6-401      10.99
6-402      134.02
7-101      93.01
7-102      93.02
7-103      93.03
7-104      93.04
7-105      93.05
7-106      93.06
7-107      93.07
7-108      93.08
7-109      93.09
7-110      93.10
7-201      93.25
7-202      93.26
7-203      93.27
7-204      93.28
7-205      93.29
7-206      93.30
7-207      93.31
7-301      93.60
7-302      93.61
7-303      93.62
7-304      93.63
7-401      93.99
8-106      151.007
8-201      151.040
8-202      151.041
8-203      151.042
8-206      151.045
8-207      151.046
8-310      151.067
8-312      151.068
8-313      151.069
8-314      151.070
8-315      151.071
8-316      151.072
8-317      151.073
8-501      152.01
8-601      151.999
9-201      150.01
9-401      150.02
9-501      150.99
9-502      150.03
10-107     111.24
10-114     111.50
10-117     111.48
10-119     111.05
10-125     111.25
10-126     111.26
10-127     111.53
10-201     110.20
10-202     110.21
10-203     110.22
10-301     112.01
10-302     112.02
10-303     112.03
10-304     112.04
10-401     112.15
10-402     112.16
10-403     112.17
10-404     112.18;
           112.99
10-501     113.01
10-502     113.02
10-503     113.03
10-504     113.04
10-601     152.02
10-701     TSO Table I
10-702     TSO Table I
10-703     TSO Table I
10-801     110.01
10-802     110.02
10-803     110.03
10-901     94.01
10-902     94.02
10-903     94.03
10-904     94.04
10-905     94.05
10-906     94.06
10-907     94.07
11-101     153.01
11-201     153.02
11-301     153.03
11-401     153.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
333      3-4-1975    TSO Table I
385      1-8-1980    TSO Table II
390      5-6-1980    TSO Table II
405      4-7-1981    TSO Table I
407      5-19-1981   TSO Table I
419      1-5-1982    TSO Table II
421      4-6-1982    TSO Table II
                     71.30;
441      2-7-1984    Ch. 73 Schd. III;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. IV
442      3-20-1984   71.30
443      5-1-1984    51.08;
                     112.03
444      6-5-1984    150.01;
                     150.02
                     132.01;
                     133.06;
445      6-19-1984   91.35—
                     91.39;
                     91.99
448      11-6-1984   70.25;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I
449      12-4-1984   Ch. 73 Schd. IV;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II
454      9-8-1985    Ch. 73 Schd. IV
457      9-8-1985    50.01
459      12-3-1985   70.25;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I
460      5-6-1986    92.24;
                     92.28
462      5-13-1986   111.25;
                     111.26
463      6-3-1986    71.03;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
469      9-21-1987   31.41
471      9-21-1987   31.03
472      11-3-1987   Ch. 73 Schd. VII
475      12-1-1987   Ch. 73 Schd. IV
-        1-5-1988    110.01
478      2-2-1988    92.28
480      3-1-1988    71.03;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
481      3-1-1988    52.04
483      6-7-1988    70.60
                     70.04;
                     71.03;
484      6-7-1988    71.30;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. II;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
485      6-13-1988   Ch. 73 Schd. IV;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. VII
487      8-16-1988   Ch. 73 Schd. VII
                     70.08;
492      6-6-1989    70.09;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. V
497      1-9-1990    111.25;
                     111.26
498      2-26-1990   31.67
501      3-19-1990   Ch. 73 Schd. III;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. IV
504      6-5-1990    71.30
-        9-4-1990    Ch. 73 Schd. IV
510      10-2-1990   151.007
512      12-4-1990   71.30
514      3-5-1991    30.18
515      3-5-1991    30.19
516      3-5-1991    70.10
517      3-5-1991    92.01;
                     92.05
518      3-5-1991    112.16
519      5-7-1991    52.35
520      6-4-1991    130.04;
                     130.99
523      9-10-1991   71.03;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
525      9-10-1991   Ch. 73 Schd. IV
527      10-8-1991   110.01
528      10-8-1991   91.20
532      5-5-1992    71.30
534      6-2-1992    Ch. 74 Schd. II
535      6-2-1992    93.30
536      7-8-1992    Ch. 74 Schd. III
541      4-1-1993    35.10
542      6-8-1993    150.01
                     70.55;
552      4-5-1994    70.61;
                     71.15
                     130.01;
                     130.05—
553      4-5-1994    130.07;
                     133.01;
                     133.04;
                     134.15
555      4-7-1994    53.045
556      4-14-1994   111.48
558      6-7-1994    110.01
                     51.01—
554      9-3-1994    51.03;
                     51.05—
                     51.08
561      11-7-1994   111.53
563      3-7-1995    32.02
565      7-11-1995   72.04;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. VII
570      9-7-1995    72.04;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. VII
581      12-18-1996  32.09
583      3-4-1997    110.01
584      3-4-1997    91.16—
                     91.18
585      8-5-1997    153.01
586      8-5-1997    110.01
591      11-4-1997   32.06
592      12-9-1997   31.15
594      12-9-1997   35.05
595      12-9-1997   35.08
596      12-9-1997   33.08
597      12-9-1997   34.22
598      12-9-1997   34.24
599      12-9-1997   34.04
600      12-9-1997   34.43
601      1-6-1998    32.04
602      1-6-1998    110.01
606      2-3-1998    71.30—
                     71.39
609      4-7-1998    92.31
613      10-6-1998   134.16
614      9-7-1999    93.47
617      1-4-2000    31.21
623      9-7-2000    91.16
                     10.99;
                     32.99;
                     50.99;
                     70.99;
626      4-3-2001    91.99;
                     93.99;
                     150.99;
                     151.999;
                     153.99
632      6-5-2001    52.18
635      8-7-2001    71.16
641      12-3-2002   31.20
645      2-4-2003    50.29
646      2-4-2003    91.15
650      4-8-2003    152.01
655      6-3-2003    134.17
                     10.99;
                     32.99;
                     50.99;
658      8-5-2003    70.99;
                     91.99;
                     93.99;
                     150.99;
                     151.999
662      11-4-2003   52.12
668      6-8-2004    92.28
669      9-7-2004    70.11
670      9-7-2004    70.10
673      6-7-2005    91.19
674      6-7-2005    110.01
676      1-9-2006    110.01
679      4-4-2006    31.40;
                     31.43
680      4-4-2006    151.040
681      4-4-2006    135.03;
                     135.99
682      4-4-2006    71.03;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
685      5-9-2006    150.01
686      6-6-2006    135.04;
                     135.99
                     92.20;
687      7-6-2006    92.31;
                     93.30
692      9-7-2006    30.20;
                     32.10
693      11-7-2006   91.20
695      6-5-2007    71.03;
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
702      5-6-2008    Ch. 73 Schd. V
703      5-6-2008    70.04;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I
707      12-9-2008   52.19
769      7-11-2017   93.47
775      2-6-2018    72.05;
                     72.99
792      8-11-2020   92.07
803      4-4-2023    90.30
805      8-8-2023    110.20
                    
 
 
 
